We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Qualitative analysis showed that supplements (oral and IV) are well tolerated, safe and effective in COVID patients. Conclusion:
      The findings of this study show that vitamin D supplementation is effective in reducing the COVID-19 severity. Hence, vitamin D should be recommended as an adjuvant therapy for COVID-19.However, more robust and larger trials are required to substantiate it further. © The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Association of Physicians. All rights reserved.
 Sections
Can taking a vitamin D supplement prevent infection with the virus that causes coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)? Answer From Daniel C. DeSimone, M.D. It is not clear if vitamin D supplements help prevent COVID-19 infection. You can help prevent infection from the COVID-19 virus by following these steps:
Get vaccinated. Avoid people who are sick. Wash your hands often with soap and water.
 It was determined that vitamin D serum concentrations inversely correlated with the decline in COVID-19 infection risk. The overall treatment elicited by vitamin D serum level interaction was considerable, with a 12% rise in the hazard ratio for each category of serum level. A 25% reduction in COVID-19 risk throughout the spectrum of cumulative dosages and a 27% reduction across average daily dosages were also noted. The cumulative dose-response relationship was inversely related to vitamin D blood concentration. Overall, the study findings showed that vitamin D2 and vitamin D3 supplementation significantly reduced the risk of COVID-19 infection and death within 30 days. Therefore, the researchers believe vitamin D3 supplementation could be a valuable strategy for limiting the spread of COVID-19 infection and related death and racial differences in COVID-19 outcomes.Journal reference:
Gibbons, J.B., Norton, E.C., McCullough, J.S."
Question:Can vitamin D cure COVID-19?

No
1

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"As a result, in critically ill COVID-19 patients, suppression of cytokine storms and immune function attacks (hyper-inflammation) may be the appropriate treatment strategy. Vitamin C is one of the nutrients of interest in COVID-19 cure and prevention. Vitamin C may have a number of immune-modulatory mechanisms that can help to mitigate or reduce COVID-19 pathophysiology (4, 5, 9–11). Vitamin C may act as an antioxidant (9–11). Vitamin C supplementation is thought to help reduce oxidative damage and thus prevent worsening internal vascular endothelial injury (4). It has been proposed that vitamin C also can protect against cytokine attack during SARS-CoV-2 infections (4, 5, 9–11) (Tumor Necrosis Factor).
 Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33576820.Kumari P, Dembra S, Dembra P, et al. The role of vitamin C as adjuvant therapy in COVID-19. 2020;12(11):e11779. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33409026.Zhang J, Rao X, Li Y, et al. Pilot trial of high-dose vitamin C in critically ill COVID-19 patients.
 Yes, but for different reasons. Caution: Be careful taking very high doses of vitamin C supplements. They can also cause unwanted side effects such as abdominal cramping and diarrhea. How might IV vitamin C work in COVID-19 patients? There are several theories about how IV vitamin C may help treat COVID-19:
			Very high vitamin C levels may create free radicals that destroy viruses and bacteria. Our body’s cells have defenses against these free radicals, but viruses do not."
Question:Can vitamin C cure COVID-19?

No
2

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"The BCG-vaccinated group also displayed protective effects against other infectious diseases, including fewer symptoms, lesser severity and fewer infectious disease events per patient. No BCG-related systemic adverse events occurred. BCG’s broad-based infection protection suggests that, in addition to COVID-19, may potentially provide protection against new SARS-CoV-2 variants and other pathogens. The researchers are hoping the results will spur a larger scale study of the effects of the BCG vaccine in patients with type 1 diabetes, considered among the most vulnerable groups to COVID-19. The BCG vaccine is an avirulent tuberculosis strain Mycobacterium bovis historically given to protect against tuberculosis and, since its introduction in 1921, has been the most widely administered vaccine in the history of medicine. Considered to be extremely safe, BCG is on the World Health Organization’s List of Essential Medicines and is given to roughly 100 million children per year globally.
Just a moment...
            www.pnas.org
            Checking if the site connection is secure
                        Enable JavaScript and cookies to continue
            www.pnas.org needs to review the security of your connection before proceeding.
 et al.BCG vaccination in South African HIV-exposed infants - risks and benefits.S Afr Med J. 2009; 99: 88-93PubMed
Google Scholar Settings with a history of BCG vaccination reported fewer COVID-19 cases and deaths in the early months of the pandemic, and it was hypothesised that non-specific effects of current and historical widescale BCG vaccination could protect from COVID-19.6Miller A. Reandelar M.J. Fasciglione K. Roumenova V. Li Y. Otazu G.H. Correlation between universal BCG vaccination policy and reduced mortality for COVID-19.medRxiv. 2020; : 1-15Google Scholar,7Bagheri N. Montazeri H. On BCG vaccine protection from COVID-19: a review.SN Compr Clin Med. 2021; 3: 1261-1271Crossref
PubMed
Google ScholarTrained immunity involves a reprogramming of innate immune cells (particularly myeloid and natural killer cells) to enhance cytokine production and antimicrobial functions.2Singh A.K."
Question:Can BCG vaccine prevent COVID-19?

No
3

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"None of the reports about the use of ibuprofen in COVID-19 mention the use or not of paracetamol before or in the early stages of infection, whereas this use is widespread [31–33].These findings raise the following points:An indication bias may exist: more severe cases with more symptoms and higher fever might not respond well to the first-line antipyretic paracetamol, so ibuprofen would then be used (channeling). The same has been described with soft-tissue infection [34]. This may be compounded by a reporting notoriety bias [35], where only cases exposed to ibuprofen are reported.The reality of an increased risk of severe pneumonia in patients chronically on drugs that upregulate ACE-2, such as NSAIDs, ACEIs, or ARBs, has not been shown; in fact, upregulating ACE-2 might also have beneficial effects [20, 21, 25]. Prior use of ACEIs either did not change or reduced the risk of death in patients with COVID-19 [22].In a study of associations between exposure to ACEIs or ARBs and influenza, the risk of influenza was lower with ACEIs or ARBs, and this protection increased with the duration of use [36]. Preexisting diseases that may also be worsened by long-term NSAIDs, such as hypertension or heart failure, seem to increase the risk of mortality in COVID-19 [22, 37, 38].A public health decision based on a few anecdotal reports and irrelevant experimental data may have deprived patients of a drug effective at controlling pain and fever. Encouraging the use of paracetamol while discouraging the use of ibuprofen might induce patients to use higher doses of paracetamol rather than adding ibuprofen for symptom control, increasing the risk of hepatic injury [31, 39–41], which might also be increased by COVID-19-related alterations of liver function [42–44].At this point, there exist no scientific data to support an increased risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection or COVID-19 severity with ibuprofen.
EMA gives advice on the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatories for COVID-19 | European Medicines Agency
Skip to main content
Search
Search
Menu
Medicines
Medicines
Search
Download
What we publish and when
Medicines under evaluation
National registers
Human regulatory
Human regulatory
Overview
Research and development
Marketing authorisation
Post-authorisation
Herbal products
Veterinary regulatory
Veterinary regulatory
Overview
Research and development
Marketing authorisation
Post-authorisation
Committees
Committees
How the committees work
CHMP
CVMP
PRAC
COMP
HMPC
CAT
PDCO
Working parties and other groups
News & events
News & events
News and press releases
Events
What's new
Committee highlights
Therapeutic areas: latest updates
Publications
Press and social media
Open consultations
RSS feeds
Partners & networks
Partners & networks
EU partners
International activities
Patients and consumers
Healthcare professionals
Academia
Pharmaceutical industry
Networks
Health technology assessment bodies
About us
About us
What we do
Who we are
How we work
Annual reports and work programmes
History of EMA
Careers
Procurement
Glossaries
About this website
Data protection and privacy
FAQs
Contacts
EMA gives advice on the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatories for COVID-19
Press release 18/03/2020
EMA is aware of reports, especially on social media, which raise questions about whether non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicines (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen could worsen coronavirus disease (COVID-19).There is currently no scientific evidence establishing a link between ibuprofen and worsening of COVID‑19. EMA is monitoring the situation closely and will review any new information that becomes available on this issue in the context of the pandemic.In May 2019, EMA’s safety committee (PRAC) started a review of the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicines ibuprofen and ketoprofen​​​​​​ following a survey by the French National Agency for Medicines and Health Products Safety (ANSM) which suggested that infection due to chickenpox (varicella) and some bacterial infections could be made worse by these medicines. The product information of many NSAIDs already contains warnings that their anti-inflammatory effects may hide the symptoms of a worsening infection. The PRAC is reviewing all available data to see if any additional measure is required.When starting treatment for fever or pain in COVID-19, patients and healthcare professionals should consider all available treatment options including paracetamol and NSAIDs. Each medicine has its own benefits and risks which are reflected in its product information and which should be considered along with EU national treatment guidelines, most of which recommend paracetamol as a first treatment option for fever or pain.In line with EU national treatment guidelines, patients and healthcare professionals can continue using NSAIDs (like ibuprofen) as per the approved product information. Current advice includes that these medicines are used at the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible period.Patients who have any questions should speak to their doctor or pharmacist.
 However, a recently published study undertaken by the University of Southern Denmark and the Danish Medicines Agency’s Data Analytics Center, etc. has found no association between the use of NSAIDs and serious adverse reactions in COVID-19 patients. No statistically significant difference
A total of 9,326 Danish patients infected with COVID-19 in the period between 27 February and 29 April participated in the study. Of these patients, 248 were taking an NSAID drug. The results below show that there is no statistically significant difference between the patients using NSAIDs and the patients not using NSAIDs. Patients using NSAIDs
Patients not using NSAIDs
Mortality
6 per cent
6 per cent
Hospitalisation
21 per cent
25 per cent
Intensive care admissions
5 per cent
5 per cent
The study confirms the European Medicines Agency’s announcement in March this year that there is no scientific evidence to suggest that ibuprofen worsens the condition of patients infected with COVID-19."
Question:Can ibuprofen worsen COVID-19?

No.
4

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Thymol formulations achieved only 0.5 log10 reduction in viral titres. In addition, salt water was not proven effective. Gargle formulations with cetylperidinium chloride, chlorhexidine and hexetidine have great potential in reducing SAR-CoV-2 at the source of entry into the body, thus minimizing risk of transmission of COVID-19. IntroductionSince its first discovery in December 2019, coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has affected more than 200 million people and caused more than 4 million deaths worldwide1. Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) has been implicated as the causative agent of COVID-19 based on genetic analysis of the virus from the first few cases detected in Wuhan, China2. SARS-CoV-2 is an envelope, non-segmented, positive sense RNA virus identified as a novel beta coronavirus after SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV3.
 UGM specialist in internal medicine, dr. RM. Agit Sena Adisetiadi, Sp.PD., said that viral information about gargling saltwater against Covid-19 was wrong. Saltwater gargling cannot prevent Covid-19 infection. "There is no medical evidence that explains that this can help prevent Covid-19," he explained on Monday (27/4) Gargling or drinking warm water with a mixture of salt or vinegar has long been used by people in the country as a way to relieve symptoms associated with flu and sore throat. Nevertheless, he emphasized once again; this method would not protect you from Covid-19.Drinking enough water about 2 liters or 8-9 glasses per day is one step to maintaining a healthy body. Besides, it also prevents dehydration.According to him, adhering to the Covid-19 preventive health protocol is the primary effort that must be made to avoid transmission of the virus.
 3 Department of TB & Chest, Malla Reddy Medical College for Women, Suraram, Quthubullapur, Hyderabad-500055, Telangana, India. PMID:
33046408
      PMCID:
      PMC7528968
      DOI:
      10.1016/j.explore.2020.09.010
  Item in Clipboard
          Full text links
        CiteCollectionsDisplay options
      Display options
            Format
          AbstractPubMedPMID
        Abstract
      This report provides a perspective on the relevance of saline water gargling and nasal irrigation to the COVID-19 crisis. While there is limited evidence concerning their curative or preventive role against SARS-CoV-2 infection, previous work on their utility against influenza and recent post-hoc analysis of the Edinburgh and Lothians Viral Intervention Study (ELVIS) provide compelling support to their applicability in the current crisis. Saline water gargling and nasal irrigation represent simple, economical, practically feasible, and globally implementable strategies with therapeutic and prophylactic value. These methods, rooted in the traditional Indian healthcare system, are suitable and reliable in terms of infection control and are relevant examples of harmless interventions. We attempt to derive novel insights into their usefulness, both from theoretical and practical standpoints."
Question:Can gargling salt water prevent COVID-19?

No
5

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"The proportion of patients’ hospitalization for COVID 19 treatment was also lower among ginger users (28.0%) than in nonusers (38.0%).46 In a study from Bangladesh, a few cases of cured COVID-19 patients were described who consumed home medicines containing ginger in mixes of various herbs with or without the use of additional treatments.47 According to the results from a Tunisian study, treatment of a few cases of COVID-19 with home medicines containing ginger in combinations with other herbs reduced disease symptoms.48 In some parts of Africa, acclaimed remedies containing ginger in mixes of various herbs were also used for the management of COVID-19.49 The results from a clinical trial study from Iran indicate that a combination therapy by ginger and Echinacea in suspected COVID-19 outpatients attenuated some of their clinical symptoms (breath shortness, coughing and muscular pain) in comparison with those treated with a standard protocol using hydroxychloroquine, alone.50 In addition, the hospitalization rate in the intervention group (2.0%) was lower than that in the control group (6.0%).50 The results from a randomized-controlled study showed that the patients with ARDS who were fed an enteral diet enriched with ginger extract for 21 days exhibited greater oxygenation, lower serum concentrations of IL-1, IL-6, and TNF-α, and spent shorter time on mechanical ventilation compared to control group. However, organ failure, barotrauma and mortality rate similarly occurred in ginger-treated patients and control group.20 Ginger can have beneficial impacts in patients suffering from pulmonary complications such as ARDS, lung fibrosis, and pneumonia, as well as sepsis, all of which are signs observed in COVID-19.51 Overall, the aforesaid evidence indicates that more high-quality controlled trials need to confirm the effectiveness and safety of ginger or its compound in COVID-19 patients. A clinical trial is going on in Iran, in which a total of 84 patients with COVID-19 were randomly classified into two groups of each with 42 participants, including intervention and control groups. The intervention group will be administrated standard treatment protocol plus 1000 mg ginger three times daily for seven days, whereas the control group will be received standard treatment plus placebo tablets at the same dose and timing.52
Anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory, and anti-oxidative potentials of gingerGinger potentials to modulate the neutrophil responsesThe neutrophils from COVID-19 display an activation status. Neutrophil activation and degranulation can promote inflammation and hemorrhagic lesions in the pulmonary system of COVID-19 patients.53 Lymphopenia and a higher neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio also happen in patients with severe COVID-19.54 Patients with COVID-19 exhibited high circulating levels of calprotectin (a neutrophil activation marker) and its quantities were higher in patients who had progressed to the severe form of the disease.55 During viral respiratory infections, the quantities of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand (CXCL) 8, which is a neutrophil-recruitment chemokine, in the secretions of airways were positively related to the count of neutrophils, amount of neutrophil-derived elastase, and clinical scores.56
,
57 Activated neutrophils displayed NETosis, autophagy, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation leading to lung injury, which promotes ARDS.56 The interaction of viral proteins with TLR4 triggers NETosis which consists of large extracellular, web-like structures.56
,
58
In an experimental inflammatory model, ginger aqueous extract dose-dependently attenuates the neutrophil infiltration and activation that assessed by myeloperoxidase (MPO) production.59 Ginger aqueous extract also reduces leukocyte infiltration in an animal model of allergic asthma.60 GEO potently suppresses the ROS production by phorbol myristate acetate (PMA)-stimulated human neutrophils.61 In a mouse model of acute lung injury (ALI), pretreatment with zingerone decreases lung histopathologic alterations, alveolar hemorrhage as well as neutrophil accumulation and MPO activity.21 Ginger extract inhibits the CXCL8 production by fibroblast-like synovial cells collected from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis.62
Ginger potentials to modulates the macrophage responsesSARS-CoV-infected human macrophages express C–C chemokine ligand (CCL2), CCL3 (macrophage inflammatory protein 1α, MIP1α), CCL8 (MCP2), CCL7 (MCP3), and CXCL10.63
,
64 Treatment of the human monocytes with the purified S protein of SARS-CoV promotes CCL15, CCL16, CCL19, CXCL10, and CXCL11 expression.65
,
66 Similarly, Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV)-infected human macrophages express CCL2, CCL3, CCL5, interleukin (IL-2), and IL-3.67 SARS-CoV-2 can infect several monocyte and macrophage subsets via ACE2-related and/or ACE2-unrelated paths.68 SARS-CoV-2-infected monocytes/macrophages secrete great concentrations of pro-inflammatory mediators causing local organ inflammation and cytokine storms. Raised quantities of IFN-γ, TNF-α, granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), CXCL8, CXCL10, IL-1β, IL-2, IL-7, IL-9, IL-10, IL-17, MCP1, MIP1A, and MIP1B were observed in COVID-19 patients, especially in those who required ICU services.69 Both localized organ inflammation and cytokine storm have critical roles in the exacerbation of SARS-CoV-2-related consequences.68
Elevated amounts of neutrophil-recruitment chemokines (including CCL7 and CCL2, CXCL10, CXCL8, CXCL1, and CXCL2) and monocyte/lymphocyte-recruitment chemokines (such as CCL20, CCL8, CCL7, CCL4, CCL3, CCL2 as well CXCL11 and CXCL6) were detected in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) specimens collected from COVID-19 patients.9 Chemokines recruit leukocytes into the lungs, thus performing an essential role in the occurrence of pulmonary abnormalities.9 Patients suffering from severe and moderate COVID-19 display greater frequencies of M1-like macrophages in BALF and greater CXCL9, CXCL10, and CXCL11 quantities in circulation than healthy individuals.70
Two major subsets of macrophages, including M1-and M2 macrophages generate large amounts of pro-inflammatory mediators (such as TNF-α, IFN-γ, IL-6, IL-12, nitric oxide (NO), and ROS) and anti-inflammatory cytokines (especially IL-10, TGF-β and IL-1 receptor antagonist), respectively.13
,
71 Greater proportions of FCN1+- and FCN1lo SPP1+ macrophages (M1-like type) were detected in the BALF samples collected from patients with severe COVID-19, while BALF specimens that collected from patients with COVID-19 and healthy individuals had greater numbers of FABP4+ macrophages (M2-like type).70 In animal models of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection, the differentiation of lung macrophage to an M1-like phenotype limits the virus replication.72 The sharp depletion of M1-like macrophages occurs during SARS and influenza A infections, which supports the viral expansion.72 The improper activation of M2 macrophages leads to lung fibrosis, while hyper-activation of M1 macrophages exacerbates harmful inflammatory responses.73
,
74 However, mitigation of the RSV-linked immunopathologic consequences needs a balanced induction of the M1-and M2-like macrophages.72
,
75
Ginger extract,76, 77, 78, 79 shogaols including 6-, 8- and 10-shogaol,79–82 gingerols including 8- and 10-gingerol,79 1-dehydro-10-gingerdione,80 and 6-Dehydrogingerdione83 repress the production of TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-12, MCP-1, RANTES, cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and NO in lipopolysaccharides (LPS)-induced mouse macrophages.
This site requires JavaScript to be enabled.
 Specifically, ginger exhibited a protective role against acute respiratory distress syndrome [10, 11], the primary cause of mortality in severe COVID-19 cases. Moreover, bioactive compounds present in ginger, such as gingerol and shogaol, showed high affinity to the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, thus could potentially interfere with the spike protein and host angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE-2) interaction [12, 13]. Interactions between ginger-derived compounds and papain-like protease and other virus proteins essential for its survival were also indicated via computational theoretical models [14, 15].Taken together, ginger presents the potential as an alternative therapeutic agent to treat COVID-19. Therefore, we conducted a clinical trial to examine the effect of the ginger supplement on the clinical manifestations of individuals with COVID-19.MethodsStudy design and participantsThe study protocol was approved by the institutional review boards of Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, and the trial was registered on the Chinese Clinical Trial Registry (ChiCTR2200059824). All participants provided written informed consent. Study participants were recruited among the individuals with COVID-19 hospitalized at two Fangcang shelter hospitals, from April to May 2022, in Shanghai, China."
Question:Can Ginger cure COVID-19?

No
6

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"He also noted that “regulators have set limits on the radiation power of 5G devices, though additional safety studies may still be warranted.”
And, such radiation can’t cause COVID-19. COVID-19 is a viral disease that comes from the coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2. To stop the spread of similar myths in the future, experts need to consistently and clearly correct common misconceptions. And better transparency from both government bodies and researchers could prevent misinformation from ever taking root. “We [researchers] need to humanize the conversations around misinformation and continue to share true information so that misinformation becomes less prevalent in the media,” said Nsoesie. Explore Related Topics:		
							Big Data						
							communication						
							coronavirus						
							covid-19						
							data						
							health communication						
							social media						
		Share this story		
0
Comments
Add
Share
5G Doesn’t Cause COVID-19, But the Rumor It Does Spread Like a Virus
TwitterFacebookRedditLinkedInEmailPrint 
Copy URL:
Copy
Gina Mantica
						Marketing Communications Specialist, Boston University Hariri Institute for Computing											
							Gina Mantica						
							Profile						
Comments & Discussion
Boston University moderates comments to facilitate an informed, substantive, civil conversation.
 There is no connection between 5G and COVID-19. The Coronavirus is a virus that is spread from one person to another through droplets that people sneeze, cough or exhale. 5G is the new generation of mobile network technology that is transmitted over non-ionising radio waves. There is no evidence that 5G is harmful to people’s health. The outbreak of coronavirus in the Chinese city of Wuhan is unrelated to 5G, and is thought to have originated in a seafood wholesale market.” The Science Media CentreThe Science Media Centre in Great Britain cites experts saying that the theories connecting 5G to COVID-19 demonstrate a “complete lack of understanding of the difference between cause and coincidence”.Prof Malcolm Sperrin, Director of the Department of Medical Physics and Clinical Engineering, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust, said:“…The supposed correlation between 5G and its development in China reveals a complete lack of understanding of the difference between cause and coincidence. In the simplest terms there might have been a train leaving Wuhan station during 5G development, but the train departure was not caused by 5G.”Dr Simon Clarke, Associate Professor in Cellular Microbiology, University of Reading, said:“The idea that COVID19 is caused by 5G mobile phone signals is complete rubbish.
 The people who think coronavirus is caused by 5G - BBC NewsBBC HomepageSkip to contentAccessibility HelpYour accountHomeNewsSportReelWorklifeTravelFutureMore menuMore menuSearch BBCHomeNewsSportReelWorklifeTravelFutureCultureMusicTVWeatherSoundsClose menuBBC NewsMenuHomeWar in UkraineCoronavirusClimateVideoWorldUKBusinessTechScienceMoreStoriesEntertainment & ArtsHealthWorld News TVIn PicturesReality CheckNewsbeatLong ReadsStoriesThe people who think coronavirus is caused by 5GThis video can not be playedTo play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.The people who think coronavirus is caused by 5GCloseThe idea that 5G could have health implications isn't new. But conspiracy theories linking 5G with Covid-19 went viral during lockdown.By May, one survey found 20% believed to some extent that the virus is a hoax. Major health organisations have said that 5G is safe and that there's no link between it and coronavirus. But while most of the UK was isolating at home, anti-5G protesters took to the streets.There were also attacks on telecoms workers, and almost 100 mobile masts were set on fire. Where did this theory come from? And where will it end?"
Question:Can 5G antennas cause COVID-19?

No
7

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"The complaint also alleges Earth Tea is an unapproved new drug the defendants are selling in violation of the FDCA. The complaint seeks civil penalties and other available equitable relief, as well as an injunction to stop the defendants from continuing their unlawful marketing and sales of Earth Tea. “The Department of Justice will not tolerate individuals or companies seeking to profit from the COVID-19 public health emergency by unlawfully advertising unproven products,” said Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Brian M. Boynton, head of the Department of Justice’s Civil Division. “The department is committed to protecting consumers and enforcing the COVID-19 Consumer Protection Act and the FDCA against those who unlawfully market unproven COVID-19 treatments.”
“COVID-19 has tragically claimed nearly one million lives in this country and close to six million lives worldwide,” stated U.S. Attorney Breon Peace for the Eastern District of New York. “Unfortunately, there are too many people who are taking advantage of this crisis by pushing alleged treatment products that are nothing more than snake oil. We will not tolerate attempts to make a dishonest dollar while putting our communities at risk during a pandemic.”
“Without any scientific evidence, the defendants claimed that drinking their herbal tea is more effective in preventing COVID-19 than approved vaccines, and cures anyone who has gotten ill within 24 hours,” said Director Samuel Levine of the FTC’s Bureau of Consumer Protection.
 How about an herbal tea that claims to cure COVID in 24-48 hours? It’s a representation the FTC says is steeped in deception. So we’ve joined forces with the FDA and the Department of Justice to file suit in federal court to challenge – among other things – allegedly false and deceptive claims that Earth Tea cures COVID-19 and that the defendants have clinical proof to back up their promises. According to the lawsuit, Sinclair and his companies sell a 16-ounce bottle of Earth Tea for $60. The defendants promote their product on their website and through social media posts and videos on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, TikTok, and YouTube.
 Although some neutralizing antibodies and small molecule inhibitors are being developed, there is uncertainty about their safety and efficacy (8). Therefore, we urgently need to explore new strategies to treat COVID-19. Tea is popular all over the world as a food drink; in fact, tea has been used as an herbal medicine to prevent and treat various diseases (9). Tea and its characteristic polyphenols—catechins—have been shown to be active in preventing obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, cancer, and other diseases (10–12). Tea ingredients have also been shown to have anti-viral activity as well as protective activity against diseases caused by oxidative stress and inflammation; many of these ingredients may help alleviate and treat COVID-19 (13, 14). Although several studies have focused on epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), the major component of green tea, which has been shown to be effective in preventing COVID-19 (15), we focused on systematic research of the therapeutic potential of tea components for COVID-19, including inhibition of COVID-19 signature gene transcription and direct interactions with specific COVID-19 proteins."
Question:Can herbal tea prevent COVID-19?

No.
8

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"On February 8, 2022, IDSA strongly recommended against using convalescent plasma in patients hospitalized with COVID-19. Among ambulatory patients with mild to moderate disease who are at high risk of progression to more serious symptoms and have no other treatment options, infusing high-titer COVID-19 convalescent plasma within 8 days of symptom onset is better than not infusing it, according to the guideline, which described this as a conditional recommendation with low certainty of evidence. The FDA’s most recent revision of the Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for COVID-19 convalescent plasma, published December 28, 2021, limits treatment with high-titer COVID-19 convalescent plasma to patients who have immunosuppressive disease or are receiving immunosuppressive treatment. Randomized clinical trials and observational studies show that convalescent plasma is unlikely to be associated with clinical benefit in immunocompetent individuals with COVID-19, according to the FDA. Interestingly, the WHO recommends against its use for patients who aren’t severely ill, calling the evidence for that position “certain.” Convalescent plasma should be used only within clinical trials for severe and critical patients with COVID-19, the WHO said in December 2021. In a letter to the BMJ, Casadevall and coauthors urged the WHO to reconsider, saying that the organization “avoided digging below the surface to ask critical questions about treatment timing, study populations, and antibody titre” of the convalescent plasma in the trials it considered.
	WHO recommends against the use of convalescent plasma to treat COVID-19
Global
Regions
WHO Regional websites
Africa
Americas
South-East Asia
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
Western Pacific
When autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to review and enter to select. Select language
Select language
English
العربية
中文
Français
Русский
Español
Português
Home
Health Topics
All topics »ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Resources »
Fact sheets
Facts in pictures
Multimedia
Publications
Questions & answers
Tools and toolkits
Popular »
Air pollution
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19)
Hepatitis
Monkeypox
Countries
All countries »ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Regions »
Africa
Americas
South-East Asia
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
Western Pacific
WHO in countries »
Statistics
Cooperation strategies
Ukraine emergency
Newsroom
All news »
News releases
Statements
Campaigns
Commentaries
Events
Feature stories
Speeches
Spotlights
Newsletters
Photo library
Media distribution list
Headlines »
Emergencies
Focus on »
Afghanistan crisis
COVID-19 pandemic
Northern Ethiopia crisis
Syria crisis
Ukraine emergency
Monkeypox outbreak
Greater Horn of Africa crisis
Latest »
Disease Outbreak News
Travel advice
Situation reports
Weekly Epidemiological Record
WHO in emergencies »
Surveillance
Research
Funding
Partners
Operations
Independent Oversight and Advisory Committee
WHO's Health Emergency Appeal 2023
Data
Data at WHO »
Global Health Estimates
Health SDGs
Mortality Database
Data collections
Dashboards »
COVID-19 Dashboard
Triple Billion Dashboard
Health Inequality Monitor
Highlights »
Global Health Observatory
SCORE
Insights and visualizations
Data collection tools
Reports »
World Health Statistics 2022
COVID excess deaths
DDI IN FOCUS: 2022
About WHO
About WHO »
People
Teams
Structure
Partnerships and collaboration
Collaborating centres
Networks, committees and advisory groups
Transformation
Our Work »
General Programme of Work
WHO Academy
Activities
Initiatives
Funding »
Investment case
WHO Foundation
Accountability »
Audit
Programme Budget
Financial statements
Programme Budget Portal
Results Report
Governance »
World Health Assembly
Executive Board
Election of Director-General
Governing Bodies website
Member States Portal
Home/
News/
item/
WHO recommends against the use of convalescent plasma to treat COVID-19
WHO recommends against the use of convalescent plasma to treat COVID-19
7 December 2021
News release
Reading time:
Trials for severe and critical patients should continueWHO has updated its living guideline on COVID-19 therapeutics to include convalescent plasma. For non-severe COVID-19 patients, WHO recommends against its use, while it should only be used within clinical trials for severe and critical COVID-19 patients.Convalescent plasma is a transfusion of blood plasma from someone who has recovered from COVID-19.Current evidence shows that convalescent plasma does not improve survival or reduce the need for mechanical ventilation, while it has significant costs. An independent panel of experts, the guidelines development group, looked at pooled data from 16 randomized controlled trials, including 16 236 patients with non-severe, severe, and critical covid-19 infection.While the evidence that convalescent plasma has no benefit in non-severe patients was certain, it was less so in the case of severe and critically ill patients. So, randomized clinical trials for these subgroups should continue.This is the 7th update of WHO’s living guidelines on COVID-19 therapeutics. Read more about previous and upcoming recommendations on WHO’s website on therapeutics   
Subscribe to our newsletters →
Media Contacts
 Media Team WHO
Email:
[email protected]
Related
Therapeutics and COVID-19 
Regions
Africa
Americas
Eastern Mediterranean
Europe
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
Policies
Cyber security
Ethics
Permissions and licensing
Preventing sexual exploitation
Terms of use
About us
Careers
Library
Procurement
Publications
Frequently asked questions
Contact us
Subscribe to our newsletters
Privacy Legal Notice
©
2023
WHO
An Update on Convalescent Plasma for COVID-19 | Johns Hopkins | Bloomberg School of Public Health
        Skip to main content
Header secondary
Departments
Faculty
Topics
Search
Search
AcademicsProgram FinderCourse DirectoryAcademic CalendarHybrid CampusLecture SeriesConvocationResearchStrategy and DevelopmentImplementation and ImpactIntegrity and OversightPracticeIn the SchoolIn the FieldIn BaltimoreResources for PractitionersHeadlinesArticles & News ReleasesEventsIn The NewsNewsletterPodcastStatements & AnnouncementsAboutAt a GlanceLeadershipStrategic PrioritiesInclusion, Diversity, Anti-Racism, and Equity (IDARE)Key CommitmentsKey InitiativesHistoryWhat is Public Health?Apply
An Update on Convalescent Plasma for COVID-19 
                Published 
January 18, 2022
COVID-19
Data
Medicine
Interview by Joshua Sharfstein
In the early days of the pandemic, clinicians began to treat COVID-19 patients with the plasma of people who have recovered from COVID-19. The idea was that protective antibodies in the plasma would help prevent severe illness and death. Nearly two years later, more evidence is in and it's being hotly debated. In this Q&A, adapted from the January 12 episode of Public Health On Call, Arturo Casadevall, MD, PhD, chair of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, talks with Josh Sharfstein, MD, about the results of the COVID-19 Plasma Project and his take on divergent recommendations about using plasma as a therapy. What is convalescent plasma? People who recover from COVID-19 have antibodies in their blood; those patients can then donate plasma to other individuals for treatment of the disease."
Question:Can convalescent plasma cure COVID-19?

No
9

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"McIntosh, K. Feemster, J. Rello.Protecting adults at risk of pneumococcal infection and influenza from exposure to SARS-CoV-2.Hum Vaccin Immunother., (2021), http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21645515.2021.1957647[19]L. Lansbury, B. Lim, V. Baskaran, W.S. Lim.Co-infections in people with COVID-19: a systematic review and meta-analysis.J Infect., 81 (2020), pp. 266-275 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jinf.2020.05.046 | Medline[20]D. Hurley, C. Griffin, M. Young, H.I. Schwartz, S. Narejos Perez, A. Dowell, et al.Safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of a 20-Valent Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine (PCV20) in adults 60 to 64 years of Age.Clin Infect Dis., 73 (2021), pp. e1489-e1497 http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/cid/ciaa1045 | Medline 
☆Please cite this article as: Vila Córcoles Á, Vacunación antineumocócica en tiempos de COVID-19, Med Clin (Barc).
 Given these findings, pneumococcal vaccination is more important than ever during the COVID-19 pandemic. In this review, the authors have presented positive reports of pneumococcal immunization in COVID-19 individuals with underlying medical problems. Despite the fact that the WHO has stated that bacterial vaccination does not protect against COVID-19 pneumonia, the authors have demonstrated that there is a correlation between pneumococcal disease and COVID-19 in terms of preventing increased morbidity and mortality from secondary infections and superinfections. The authors discussed why pneumococcal vaccination is important in the current pandemic context to improve the global health system in the fight against COVID-19. This study backs up the recommendation for pneumococcal disease immunization and the COVID-19 pandemic relief that comes with it. Journal reference:
Hyobin Im, Jinhui Ser, Uk Sim, and Hoonsung Cho.
 Lower odds of respiratory symptoms were seen in patients with a flu shot (aOR=0.678, 95% CI [0.492, 0.934], p=0.018), but no difference was found in patients with the pneumococcal vaccine versus those who didn’t have it. Additionally, having the flu shot also led to lower odds of having severe disease (aOR=0.672, 95% CI [0.500, 0.903], p=0.008) and a similar effect was seen with those who had the pneumococcal vaccine (aOR=0.412, 95% CI [0.234, 0.725], p=0.002).The researchers concluded that both the seasonal influenza and pneumococcal vaccine could provide a protective value against symptomatic COVID-19 disease. They urged further study to understand how the influenza and COVID-19 can impact a virus’s epidemiology.Reference1. The Flu vaccination may have a protective effect on the course of COVID-19 in the pediatric population: when does severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) meet influenza?."
Question:Can pneumococcal vaccine prevent COVID-19?

No
10

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"In a recent study, SERMS appear as the most promising drugs in reducing SARS-CoV-2 infection in women affected by hormone-driven cancers when compared to other antiestrogenic therapies [125, 126]. More efforts will help a future understanding of the molecular basis of this putative protective effect, before the use of SERMs and/or other antiestrogenic therapies in the prevention of COVID-19. What we intend to recommend is that any decision in treating the patients with these drugs should be taken patient by patient, keeping in mind the accumulated knowledge.Androgen deprivation and antiandrogen therapy is used routinely in prostate and in mammary cancer [127].These treatments should not be discontinued for the fear of COVID-19 infection or complications.Undergoing clinical studies will help to uncover positive or negative effects of sex hormones blockers in the spreading or progression of COVID-19, opening to the extended use of these drugs to both sexes and even to healthy individuals at increased risk of infection (Table ​(Table11).ConclusionsIn the handling of COVID-19 infection sex-related differences are represented in the initial approach to viral infections, in dimorphic hormonal signaling pathways, and in differential risk profile based on socio-cultural factors. Due to differences between different sexes in laboratory values and biomarkers, sex-dependent diagnosis and treatment methods may be needed for accurate and effective therapy.Understanding the metabolic and endocrine dysfunctions potentially linked to the exacerbation of the SARS-CoV-2 infection may support the discovery and biological interpretation of unrecognized pathogenetic bases in COVID-19.The sex differences observed in COVID-19 vulnerability emphasize the need to better understand the impact of sex on morbidity and lethality of the disease and to tailor treatment according to sex. The ongoing clinical studies for prevention and treatment of COVID-19 disease should certainly encompass sex-sensitive analyses. Targeted approaches that consider both sex and gender are urgently needed in the response efforts against COVID-19.The accumulated data so far indicate that sex hormones could be critical in explaining sex-related differences in COVID-19 morbidity and mortality (Fig.
 "It's very apparent from the data that we've seen that men are more commonly affected, more likely to be in the hospital, and also more likely to be in intensive care," says Louise. “When we analysed the data from our COVID symptom study, we also found that in the UK, men are more likely than women to need respiratory support after admission to hospital with COVID-19.”‍Could oestrogen have a protective effect against COVID-19?‍The differences between responses to viruses in men and women are likely to come down to a combination of factors, including genetics and sex hormones. Researchers have suggested that the female sex hormone oestrogen may play a particularly important role in protecting women against diseases like COVID-19. (Although oestrogen is usually thought of as a female hormones, males also produce oestrogen, but at much lower levels. )‍Studies of SARS, a disease closely related to COVID-19, in female mice showed that blocking or removing oestrogen increased the number of inflammatory cells in the animals’ lungs, making them more likely to suffer severe effects of the disease. Furthermore, researchers in Wuhan, China, measured the oestrogen levels of patients admitted to hospital with COVID-19 and found that women with low oestrogen levels tended to have more severe COVID-19 than women with higher levels of the hormone.‍What about post-menopausal women?
 However, whether sex hormones-dependent modulation of ACE2 or TMPRSS2 in the lung or other SARS-CoV-2 target tissues correlates with COVID-19 susceptibility or severity needs to be further elucidated.Sex Hormones Control Anti-Viral Immune ResponseGender is a key host factor influencing immune response, leading to differences in severity, prevalence, and pathogenesis of infection, with males generally more susceptible than females (18).According to experimental evidence from the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) caused by the SARS-CoV, another beta-coronavirus closely related to SARS-CoV-2, estrogen status is key in determining disease severity through modulation of the immune response. Ovariectomy of SARS-CoV infected female mice or treatment with an ER antagonist increased mortality compared to treatment with tamoxifen (a selective ER modulator) (19). The protective role of ER signalling has been linked to the induction of the “anti-viral status” mediated by type I interferon (IFN-I), a first line cytokine involved in host defence (4). In the SARS-CoV model, reduced survival was due to a robust viral replication and delayed IFN-I signaling which promoted accumulation of pathogenic inflammatory monocyte-macrophages, resulting in elevated lung pro-inflammatory cytokines and dysfunctional virus-specific T-cell responses (20). Thus, ER signalling may prime the IFN-I response and prevent viral replication. In contrast, a delayed IFN-I activation would generate a response-lag unable to compensate robust viral replication, thus leading to uncontrolled hyperinflammation."
Question:Can female sex hormones prevent COVID-19?

No
11

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"The Nature article is based on a hypothesis generating non-clinical study. Further research and clinical data are required in the context of COVID-19, and in fact, senior author Dr. Nevan Krogan stated, ‘I cannot stress this enough, more tests are needed to determine if cough syrup with this ingredient should be avoided by someone who has COVID-19.’ 
“In this study, researchers looked at how 69 drug compounds interacted with COVID-19 proteins using cells grown in a laboratory and performed two sets of experiments; only one found a pro-viral effect with dextromethorphan. These experimental findings do not establish an adequate scientific basis to suggest that use of dextromethorphan-containing products promotes COVID-19 infection. “Over-the-counter (OTC) medicines containing dextromethorphan are regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and are safe and effective if used according to the Drug Facts label. If an individual has symptoms consistent with COVID-19 they should reach out to their healthcare provider immediately to get tested and treated appropriately.”
The Consumer Healthcare Products Association (CHPA), founded in 1881, is the national trade association representing the leading manufacturers and marketers of consumer healthcare products, including over-the-counter (OTC) medicines, dietary supplements, and consumer medical devices. CHPA is committed to empowering self-care by ensuring that Americans have access to products they can count on to be reliable, affordable, and convenient, while also delivering new and better ways to get and stay healthy.
 But the researchers said the findings are concerning enough for them to advise cough sufferers who might be infected with coronavirus to avoid these medications.Given that cough suppressants are likely to be widely used by people with coronavirus infections — whether they’ve got an official diagnosis or not — the researchers called for more research on dextromethorphan’s safety. Dextromethorphan stifles signals in the brain that set off the reflex to cough. It is a key ingredient of virtually all over-the-counter cough and cold formulations, including those sold as Robitussin, Benylyn, DayQuil/NyQuil, Delsym, Triaminic, and Theraflu.In tests conducted at the Pasteur Institute in Paris, researchers found that when dextromethorphan was introduced into the cells of African green monkeys growing in petri dishes, the subsequent addition of SARS-CoV-2 resulted in more prolific viral growth.UC San Francisco pharmacologist Nevan J. Krogan, one of the team’s leaders, said that the group had alerted officials overseeing the government’s COVID-19 response to its concerns.The findings were reported Thursday in the journal Nature. But the group’s discoveries raise hopes as well. Science & Medicine  Could a ‘controlled avalanche’ stop the coronavirus faster, and with fewer deaths? Israeli scientists say they can mimic the effects of a vaccination campaign if certain people willingly get infected with the coronavirus and recover.
 “I do think the pro-viral activity observed in vitro merits further controlled clinical study.”Nevan Krogan, who led the research and serves as the director of the Quantitative Biosciences Institute at UC San Francisco, agreed.“This is information we wanted to responsibly report but tempered with a strong caveat that these results were seen in the lab (and) more tests are needed, especially in humans, before any definite conclusions are drawn,” Krogan said.Coronavirus: How to know when to go to the emergency roomMarch 27, 202001:37Dextromethorphan's potential to promote the growth of the virus was observed in monkey cells that were in a lab dish. The effects, if they play out clinically, are likely unique to the new coronavirus and have not been known before, Shoichet noted.It’s not a known side effect of dextromethorphan and researchers have no reason to believe it would affect influenza, for example, he added.The study involved more than 120 scientists from the U.S. and Europe who are searching for potential treatments for COVID-19.They created a blueprint of more than 300 human proteins that the virus requires to infect human cells, then looked at which existing drugs — or those in development — might target those proteins, UCSF said in a news release. They found a number with the potential to treat COVID-19.RelatedHealth & WellnessHealth & WellnessCDC adds 6 new coronavirus symptoms to its listDrugs that showed antiviral activity against the new coronavirus in lab experiments included zotatifin, which is currently in clinical trials for cancer; ternatin-4/plitidepsin, which is FDA-approved for the treatment of multiple myeloma; haloperidol, which is used to treat schizophrenia; the antihistamines clemastine and cloperastine; and the female hormone progesterone.A preclinical compound (a drug not yet approved for any condition and for which there's no human clinical data yet) called PB28 had about 20 times greater antiviral activity in lab experiments than hydroxychloroquine, which is being studied as a potential treatment for COVID-19.The researchers caution the promising drugs in the analysis have only been tested against the new coronavirus in lab experiments so human clinical trials would be needed to make sure they’re safe and effective. Until then, the authors don’t advocate anyone prescribing or using the drugs to treat COVID-19.The study “will help to focus clinical trials toward the most promising agents” to combat the virus, Krogan said in a statement.A. Pawlowski is a TODAY health reporter focusing on health news and features."
Question:Can dextromethorphan worsen COVID-19?

No
We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Print
Sections
How well do face masks protect against COVID-19?Get answers to your questions about face masks, including how to use them properly.By Mayo Clinic Staff
Can face masks help slow the spread of the virus that causes coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)? Yes. Face masks combined with other preventive measures, such as getting vaccinated, frequent hand-washing and physical distancing, can help slow the spread of the virus that causes COVID-19. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends masks for the general public. If you're in an area with a high number of people with COVID-19 in the hospital and new COVID-19 cases, the CDC recommends wearing a well-fitted mask indoors in public, whether or not you're vaccinated. The CDC says that you should wear the most protective mask possible that you'll wear regularly, fits well and is comfortable.
 Wear the most protective mask you can that fits well and that you will wear consistently. Wearing a high-quality mask along with vaccination, self-testing, and physical distancing, helps protect you and others by reducing the chance of spreading COVID-19. Masks and RespiratorsLearn about different types of masks and respirators you can use to protect yourself and others
Types of Masks and Respirators
Your Guide to MasksLearn the proper use and care of masks, including considerations for people with disabilities
Your Guide to Masks
N95 RespiratorsFind Free High-Quality MasksHow to Use Your N95 Respirator
																					Last Updated Aug. 12, 2021														Source: 	National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Syndicate
homeYour HealthAbout COVID-19plus iconVariantsplus iconUnderstanding VariantsTransmissionplus iconHow COVID-19 SpreadsReinfectionAnimals & COVID-19Basics of COVID-19SymptomsTestingplus iconSelf-Testingplus iconSelf-Testing VideosUnderstanding Your Riskplus iconRisk of Getting Very SickExposure RisksImmunocompromisedMedical ConditionsPregnant PeopleAsthmaCOVID-19 by CountyProtect Yourself & Othersplus iconVaccinesMasksplus iconTypes of Masks and RespiratorsUse and Care of MasksFind Free High-Quality MasksHow to Use Your N95 RespiratorVentilationplus iconInteractive Home Ventilation ToolIf You Were ExposedIf You Are Sickplus iconIsolationBreastfeeding & Caring for NewbornsTreatments & MedicationsLong COVIDplus iconCaring for People with Long COVIDPatient Appointment TipsTravelplus iconDomestic Travel During COVID-19International Travel to and from the United Statesplus iconRequirement for Proof of COVID-19 Vaccination for Air PassengersRequirement for Proof of Negative COVID-19 Test or Documentation of Recovery from COVID-19 for Air Passengers Traveling to the United States from China, Hong Kong, or MacauMask RecommendationCruise Ship TravelTravel FAQs 
 email_03Get Email Updates  To receive email updates about COVID-19, enter your email address:     Email Address       What's this? The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website. Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
Just a moment...
            www.science.org
            Checking if the site connection is secure
                        Enable JavaScript and cookies to continue
            www.science.org needs to review the security of your connection before proceeding."
Question:Can wearing masks prevent COVID-19?

Yes
12

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Some members of the Hindu nationalist party demanded that cow urine and dung can prevent and cure COVID‐19. Therefore, the Indian superstitious, fanatic politicians and some other leaders disseminating the propagation that cow dung can cure COVID‐19 among the general religious population. 9
 Superstitions about the byproducts of cow has got even worse in the COVID‐19 pandemic situation. Many believers in India are convinced to rub their whole body with cow dung and urine, and the packs are washed off with cow milk or buttermilk when it is dried to protect them from COVID‐19. They go to cow shelters once a week for this ritual with the hope that it will boost their energy levels and immunity against COVID‐19. They also drink the urine of cows to boost up their immunity to fight COVID‐19.
 The livelihood of farmers and the people engaged in the entire value chain have been affected. I humbly request people not to fall prey to such rumours,” the minister had said.While medical practitioners across the world have said there is no cure as such for coronavirus, Chakrapani claimed that cow urine is the “only cure” for COVID-19 and requested global leaders to consume the “miracle liquid” and lead by example in the fight against the contagious viral disease. ALSO READ
The other side of the coronavirus story
“All our leaders and officials consume ‘gaumutra’ But they do so behind closed doors and when they are sick. It doesn’t work like that,” he said, insisting that cow urine should be consumed on a daily basis to keep diseases at bay.“They (leaders) are ashamed of the gift gods have given us. Cow urine is pure elixir. Every person should drink it.”The event began with a ‘yagna’ and prayers to the cow and the virus itself, asking it to leave peacefully and not kill any more people.
 Some members of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Hindu nationalist party have claimed that cow urine and dung can prevent and cure COVID-19.https://p.dw.com/p/3ZQjeAdvertisementThe chief of the Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha (All India Hindu Union) group hosted a cow urine-drinking event on Saturday in New Delhi, hoping that the practice staves off the coronavirus. Many Hindus consider the cow to be sacred. Some leaders from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Hindu nationalist party have advocated cow urine or cow dung for its "medicinal" properties. "We have been drinking cow urine for 21 years, we also take a bath in cow dung. We have never felt the need to consume English medicine," said Om Prakash, one of the party attendees. Read more: Coronavirus latest: Spain declares state of emergency
Suman Harpriya, a legislator in the northeastern state of Assam, told state lawmakers during an assembly session on March 2 that cow urine and cow dung could be used to treat COVID-19."
Question:Can drinking cow urine cure COVID-19?

No
13

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Q: Why is social distancing important? A: Social distancing is crucial for preventing the spread of contagious illnesses such as COVID-19 (coronavirus). COVID-19 can spread through coughing, sneezing and close contact. By minimizing the amount of close contact we have with others, we reduce our chances of catching the virus and spreading it to our loved ones and within our community. Q: Who is social distancing important for? A: Social distancing is important for all of us, but those of us who are at higher risk of serious complications caused by COVID-19 should be especially cautious about social distancing.
 To avoid this possible exposure, you may want to avoid crowded areas, or keep distance between yourself and others. These actions also protect people who are at high risk for getting very sick from COVID-19 in settings where there are multiple risks for exposure. Top of Page
Additional Resources
COVID-19 Community Levels
Science Brief: SARS-CoV-2 Transmission
Science Brief: Indicators for Monitoring COVID-19 Community Levels and Making Public Health Recommendations
Science Brief: Community Use of Masks to Control the Spread of SARS-CoV-2
Science Brief: COVID-19 Vaccines and Vaccination
																					Last Updated Jan. 26, 2023														Source: 	National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Syndicate
homeYour HealthAbout COVID-19plus iconVariantsplus iconUnderstanding VariantsTransmissionplus iconHow COVID-19 SpreadsReinfectionAnimals & COVID-19Basics of COVID-19SymptomsTestingplus iconSelf-Testingplus iconSelf-Testing VideosUnderstanding Your Riskplus iconRisk of Getting Very SickExposure RisksImmunocompromisedMedical ConditionsPregnant PeopleAsthmaCOVID-19 by CountyProtect Yourself & Othersplus iconVaccinesMasksplus iconTypes of Masks and RespiratorsUse and Care of MasksFind Free High-Quality MasksHow to Use Your N95 RespiratorVentilationplus iconInteractive Home Ventilation ToolIf You Were ExposedIf You Are Sickplus iconIsolationBreastfeeding & Caring for NewbornsTreatments & MedicationsLong COVIDplus iconCaring for People with Long COVIDPatient Appointment TipsTravelplus iconDomestic Travel During COVID-19International Travel to and from the United Statesplus iconRequirement for Proof of COVID-19 Vaccination for Air PassengersRequirement for Proof of Negative COVID-19 Test or Documentation of Recovery from COVID-19 for Air Passengers Traveling to the United States from China, Hong Kong, or MacauMask RecommendationCruise Ship TravelTravel FAQs 
 email_03Get Email Updates  To receive email updates about COVID-19, enter your email address:     Email Address       What's this? The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website. Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
 Cancerwise
2020
07
Does social distancing help prevent COVID-19? Top
Jump To:  
 Back
July 30, 2020
Does social distancing help prevent COVID-19? BY
Clayton Boldt, Ph.D. Does social distancing effectively prevent the spread of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19? New research from MD Anderson shows it does. The study found that putting social distancing policies into practice in the U.S. and internationally corresponded with reductions in spread of the coronavirus."
Question:Can social distancing prevent COVID-19?

Yes
14

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"COVID-19 is caused by coronaviruses with an outer lipid (fat) membrane, so washing hands with soap and using a hand sanitizer with at least 60-70% alcohol can be effective against this type of virus. Wearing a mask or face covering can help prevent viral particles from entering or exiting through the mouth and nose. While there can be some health benefits to using a nasal rinses (also called nasal irrigation) or mouthwash, there is no scientific evidence that rinsing with vinegar can prevent or treat COVID-19. COVID-19 is caused by coronaviruses with an outer lipid (fat) membrane, so washing hands with soap and using a hand sanitizer with at least 60-70% alcohol can be effective against this type of virus. Wearing a mask or face covering can help prevent viral particles from entering or exiting through the mouth and nose. PublicationWhat our experts sayWhile there can be some health benefits to using a nasal rinses (also called nasal irrigation) or mouthwash, there is no scientific evidence that rinsing with vinegar can prevent or treat COVID-19.
 As fumigation of vinegar at low concentration (0.34%) ameliorated the symptoms of mild SARS- CoV-2 infection, we tested in vitro the potential antiviral activity of vinegar and of its active component, acetic acid. We here demonstrate that both vinegar and acetic acid indeed strongly inactivate SARS-CoV-2 infectivity in Vero cells. Furthermore, vinegar treatment caused a 90% inhibition of the infectious titer when directly applied to a nasopharyngeal swab transfer medium of a COVID-19 patient. These effects were potentiated if conduced at a temperature of 45°C vs. 37°C, a condition that is transiently generated in the upper respiratory tract during fumigation. Our findings are consistent and extend the results of studies performed in the early and mid-20th century on the disinfectant capacity of organic acids and can provide an affordable home-made aid to prevent or contain SARS-CoV-2 infection of the upper respiratory tract. Key words
SARS-CoV-2, vinegar, acetic acid, inactivation, topical microbicides
Abbreviations
SARS-CoV-2: Severe acute respiratory syndrome- coronavirus -2; COVID-19: Coronavirus disease-19; ARDS: Acute respiratory syndrome; EMEM: Eagles’ minimum essential medium; PFU: Plaque forming units; UTM: Universal transport medium; RLU: Relative light unit; t°: Temperature; IFN: Interferon; ACE2: Angiotensin converting enzyme 2
Introduction
At the end of 2019, a novel severe respiratory disease (coronavirus disease 2019, COVID-19) emerged in Wuhan, China and has since become pandemic in a few months, with ca.
 Readers of this article have different views about the importance of vinegar on Covid-19. Mohammad Hussain, one of the readers, wrote that apple cider vinegar is really effective in treating coronavirus. Another person named Mujtaba wrote: “Apple cider vinegar works like a miracle on coronavirus.”
According to him, he and his mother contracted the virus, but by drinking apple cider vinegar and water they recovered. In a video clip posted on a Youtube page named “Aparat”, a person says that his mother contracted the virus and was being cared at home. He added that he had heard that apple cider vinegar was useful. “We mixed two tablespoons of apple cider vinegar with four tablespoons of water and steamed it, inhaled it two to three times a day, and two weeks later we recovered from the virus,” he explained."
Question:Can vinegar prevent COVID-19?

Yes
We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"We observed no benefits of lopinavir-ritonavir in the treatment of COVID-19. It did not affect mortality, virological cure and radiological improvement in COVID-19 patients. A similar trend was observed in the sensitivity analysis. We observed no difference in adverse events in patients treated with lopinavir-ritonavir as compared to control interventions.Our findings emphasize the need to evaluate drug repurposing in the setting of randomized controlled trials before its widespread use [17]. In vitro efficacy of Lopinavir-ritonavir against COVID-19 is not reflected in clinical studies. This could be because of a lack of reaching enough minimum effective plasma concentration of lopinavir-ritonavir against SARS-CoV-2 in COVID-19 patients.
 Lopinavir–ritonavir in patients admitted to hospital with COVID-19 (RECOVERY): a randomised, controlled, open-label, platform trial. Lancet 396(10259), 1345–1352 (2020). •• A landmark randomized controlled trial investigating the efficacy and safety of lopinavir–ritonavir for treating COVID-19 inpatients.Crossref, Medline, Google Scholar33. WHO Solidarity Trial Consortium, Pan H, Peto R et al. Repurposed Antiviral Drugs for COVID-19 – Interim WHO Solidarity Trial Results. N. Engl.
 We identified only one randomised clinical trial that compared lopinavir–ritonavir with usual care in patients with COVID-19. This trial assigned 99 patients who had been admitted to hospital with COVID-19 to a lopinavir–ritonavir group (400 mg and 100 mg, respectively) and 100 patients to a standard-care group, and found no difference in viral clearance, time to clinical improvement, or 28-day mortality between the two groups. However, the trial was underpowered to exclude clinically relevant treatment effects.Added value of this studyTo our knowledge, the randomised evaluation of COVID-19 therapy (RECOVERY) trial is the first large-scale randomised clinical trial to report the effects of lopinavir–ritonavir in patients admitted to hospital with COVID-19. We found no significant difference between the lopinavir–ritonavir group and the usual care group in terms of 28-day mortality, the probability of discharge alive within 28 days, or, among patients who were not receiving invasive mechanical ventilation at randomisation, the probability of progressing to the composite outcome of invasive mechanical ventilation or death. We saw no evidence of benefit of lopinavir–ritonavir in any patient subgroup.Implications of all the available evidenceOur finding of no clinical benefit from lopinavir–ritonavir treatment compared with standard care supports earlier findings from a smaller clinical trial. Many clinical care guidelines have recommended lopinavir–ritonavir for treatment of patients admitted to hospital with COVID-19."
Question:Can lopinavir-ritonavir cure COVID-19?

No
15

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"So far in Modern Western Medicine (MWM), no cure has been found which is specific to COVID-19. The only literature relevant to the treatment of Coronavirus disease has surfaced from Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM). TCM which was extensively used to control the epidemic in China, also consists of herbal medicines similar to Ayurveda. In this case, the patient, who was familiar with the use of Ayurvedic medicines, fully aware that no proven cure exists in MWM, decided to entirely rely on the limited Ayurvedic medicines that he had in his possession at the time of falling ill. Despite the patient presenting with symptoms, namely high fever, severe body pain and severe cough, along with many of the other associated symptoms of COVID-19, the progress of the disease could be arrested within a short period by being exclusively on Ayurvedic medicines. This illustrates that there is a wide scope to explore the variety of pertinent medicines present in Ayurvedic pharmacopoeia which can be used more rationally to suit every stage of the disease.
Just a moment...
            www.sciencedirect.com
            Checking if the site connection is secure
                        Enable JavaScript and cookies to continue
            www.sciencedirect.com needs to review the security of your connection before proceeding.
 With regard to the work ahead, a suitably designed case series or randomized controlled trial (RCT) would be advisable to further establish its efficacy for high-risk COVID-19 patients.Related worksThere is emerging evidence that Ayurvedic treatment methodologies and herbal medicines may be effective in combating COVID-19. Girijaa and Sivan [18] describe one of the first case reports of a patient with COVID-19 treated entirely with Ayurveda. In a study using molecular dynamics simulations, Kumar et al. [19] report that withaferin A (Wi-A) and withanone (Wi-N), derived from a common Ayurvedic herb called Ashwagandha, may block the entry of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) into cells. Several herbs including Tulsi (Ocimum sanctum) and Haldi (Curcuma longa—turmeric) used as Ayurvedic medicines are well known for their immunomodulatory properties [20,21,22,23,24]. Ayurvedic treatment has also been found to be effective in other COVID-like illnesses such as influenza [25,26,27] and chikungunya [28]."
Question:Can ayurveda cure COVID-19?

No
16

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Will exposure to UV light protect against coronavirus (COVID-19)? | Cancer CouncilGo to cancer.org.auiHeard.Submit a questionAbout iHeardSearchJennifer from Redfern asked:Will exposure to UV light protect against coronavirus (COVID-19)?Submit a questionAbout iHeardI heard that exposure to UV light such as UV lamps, personal solariums and sunlight can protect against coronavirus (COVID-19). Is this true? "Light in the ultraviolet (UV) radiation spectrum is not recommended as a means of protecting yourself against coronavirus (COVID-19). There is no evidence to show that it will prevent or cure COVID-19. There are three types of UV radiation in sunlight.
 The researchers are confident that the lamps would also destroy the virus that causes Covid-19: Experiments in a different setting by other teams have shown that far-UVC does inactivate SARS-CoV-2, perhaps because UV light damages the genome of the virus. Some health experts argue that disinfecting indoor spaces with light could be a game-changer as the world opens up and the memory of lockdowns — for most of us — slowly fades. SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, can become airborne via the floating particles emitted when people breathe, speak, shout or sing. Virus-laden plumes can hang in the air indoors and spread disease. For more than two and a half years, scientists and government officials around the world have promoted a string of preventive measures — handwashing, vaccination, social distancing, mask-wearing, ventilation. None of them is perfect; they are often described as layers in a “Swiss cheese model” of risk reduction.
 (see Far-UVC light (222 nm) efficiently and safely inactivates airborne human coronaviruses). UVC radiation may also be effective in inactivating the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which is the virus that causes the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19). For more information see "Q: Where can I read more about UV radiation and disinfection?". However, currently there is limited published data about the wavelength, dose, and duration of UVC radiation required to inactivate the SARS-CoV-2 virus. In addition to understanding whether UVC radiation is effective at inactivating a particular virus, there are also limitations to how effective UVC radiation can be at inactivating viruses, generally. Direct exposure: UVC radiation can only inactivate a virus if the virus is directly exposed to the radiation."
Question:Can exposure to UV light prevent COVID-19?

No
17

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Antiviral effects of black seeds: Effect on COVID-19 - PMC
The new PMC design is here! Learn more
                          about navigating our updated article layout. The
                          PMC legacy view
                          will also be available for a limited time. Back to Top
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before
            sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal
            government site.
 A.;    			            			            Faiq, T.;    			            			            Ghareeb, O..    			                                                                
Indian Journal of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology
;  15(3):3393-3399, 2021. Article
            in English
            | EMBASE    	| ID: covidwho-1302972
                                        ABSTRACT
ABSTRACT
                                    In order to cope with Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, there is an urgent need for effective prevention and control measures. This study aims to explore the positive action of black seeds (BS) against COVID-19 in patients involved in the trail. It is a descriptive, comparative, and open-label study. In our study, (419) participants were divided into two groups.The studied participants included patients which received standard care treatment as a control group (CON), while the (BS) group were patients received black seeds at a 40 mg/kg dose orally, once daily for 14 days plus standard protocol of treatment. The evidence of BS efficacy was obvious in the severity and outcome of infection with covid-19.
 Novel formulations of TQ nanoparticles may, however, be required to overcome the poor bioavailability and the pharmacokinetic limitation of this compound in terms of clinical use. Conclusion
This article examined the concept that certain natural compounds may target the molecular mechanisms of COVID-19, as well as potentially assisting with overcoming the diverse health complications associated with the repeated use or withdrawal of conventional therapeutics. TQ, the main active ingredient of Black seed oil, is an easy, cost-effective natural source of anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, immune stimulant, antibacterial, anticoagulant, and antiviral properties. TQ use may thus be expected to improve COVID-19 comorbidities and to protect against certain antiviral drug-induced side effects and toxicities. TQ appears to be a promising therapeutic option for managing COVID-19 and its complications, and clinical trials in COVID-19 patients to examine the beneficial effects of TQ are thus highly recommended. Abbreviations
ACE, angiotensin-converting enzyme; ARDS, acute respiratory distress syndrome; COVID-19, coronavirus disease-2019; COX, cyclooxygenase; EBV, Epstein-Barr virus; EMT-TFs, epithelial–mesenchymal transition–transcription factors; HCV, hepatitis C virus; HIV, human immunodeficiency virus; HSP, heat shock protein; IL, interleukin; IRAK1, interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1; MCMV, murine cytomegalovirus; Nrf2, the nuclear factor erythroid 2 (NFE2)-related factor 2; ROS, reactive oxygen species; SARS-CoV-2, severe acute respiratory syndrome; TQ, thymoquinone."
Question:Can black seed oil treat COVID-19?

Yes
We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Last updated on Jan 12, 2023. Is Tamiflu used to treat COVID-19? Official answer
by Drugs.com
Tamiflu (oseltamivir) is being used in conjunction with other medicines in a number of clinical trials for patients with COVID-19 (coronavirus). Results of one study show Covid-19 patients treated with oseltamivir had a significantly shorter stay in the hospital and significantly lower death rate compared to the control group. This study did have limitations, and the authors noted that more prospective studies need to be done to clarify the clinical benefit of oseltamivir with other antiviral and combination therapies.
 Oseltamivir (brand name Tamiflu) is a neuraminidase inhibitor approved for the treatment and prophylaxis of influenza A and B ([7,8]).It can inhibit the spread of the influenza virus and reduce viral shedding in respiratory secretions in the human body [8], and is considered a therapeutic option in several clinical trials and studies, but the results remain controversial ([9,10]). More studies are required there to demonstrate the efficacy of antiviral drugs in the treatment of patients with Covid-19.In this study, our aim was to evaluate the efficacy of Oseltamivir, by comparing two different combination therapeutic regimens, based on length of hospital stay, need for admission to the ICU, mechanical ventilation and mortality rate.2. Material and methods2.1. Study designThis was a retrospective analysis of a single center, cohort study, performed between Feb 20, 2020, and April 20, 2020, in patients with Covid-19 infection, at (XXX), a center for pandemic Covid-19 infected patients, (XXX).This study including 285 confirmed, Covid-19 infected patients who were admitted to this hospital during two months and received two different therapeutic regimens according to the guidelines issued by Iranian Ministry of Health and Medical Education (first edition(11), fifth edition(12).The first group including 120 inpatients between Feb 20, 2020 and March 15, 2020 who received Oseltamivir in addition with routine regimen (combination group) [11].The second group including 165 patients between March 20, 2020 and April 20, 2020 received routine regimen alone (control group) [12].2.2. Study populationThe confirmed Covid-19 infected in patients with mild to severe disease were enrolled in the study, according to their clinical symptoms with a positive diagnostic kit result (RT-PCR) or typical radiologic changes on chest computed tomography (CT) [13], with the approval of the specialist in this hospital for the diagnosis of Covid-19, and clinical requirement of hospitalization(11).The patient's medical information including demographic data, clinical features, the result of Covid-19 test (PCR), chest CT scans, comorbidities, and underling disease (hypertension, diabetes, pulmonary disease, cardiovascular and kidney disease), the admission to the intensive care unit (ICU), the requirement of mechanical ventilation, the duration of hospitalization, their outcome, and mortality, extracted from hospital documented patient's data recorded in this hospital.Patients with a history of allergic reactions or known contraindications (QT-prolongation) or drug interactions with routine regimens, or lack of data in their documents, and the patients who die within the first 24 h of hospitalization, exclude from study.The patients in this study were enrolled by simple random sampling without stratification.This study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and was approved by the Ethics Committee of the (XXX).Written informed consent was obtained from all patients when admitted to the hospital. patients’ confidentiality was considered by protecting their data and documents.2.3.
 Opens in a new tab or window
email article
While vaccines have dominated the landscape in the fight against COVID-19, oral antiviral pills that can be taken as an outpatient, with the goal of forestalling serious illness, are also in the works. This so-called "Tamiflu approach" to treating COVID-19 offers several advantages over current therapies, such as monoclonal antibodies and convalescent plasma, which require intravenous infusions. An oral treatment for COVID-19 could be easily produced, transported, and stored, making it easier to obtain and take quickly. As with Tamiflu, the sooner one takes an antiviral, the lower the chances of developing serious illness, according to Joan Butterton, MD, vice president of clinical research in infectious disease at Merck in Boston. "One of the real things for controlling the pandemic is making sure that drugs can get to the people who need them," Butterton told MedPage Today. "An oral drug for COVID-19 would be something that people could take quickly."
Question:Can Tamiflu help COVID-19?

Yes
We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Notably, we are not claiming that Neem can cure COVID-19 as there is no scientific evidence that proves the same. All we are saying is that Neem can help you in effective fight against the coronavirus. It can boost your immune function and can help you recover faster if you get the COVID-19 infection by any chance. Consuming Neem leaves can prevent you from being critical illness due to coronavirus infection and experience debilitating symptoms associated with it. This natural herb is good for your dental health too. Notably, your oral health says a lot about your immunity.
 Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) in both groups were minimal and were of grade 1 or 2 in severity. Biomarkers and QOL remained stable in both groups. Conclusions:
      The study found a reduced risk of COVID-19 infection in participants receiving neem capsules, which demonstrates its potential as a prophylactic treatment for the prevention of COVID-19 infection. The findings warrant further investigation in clinical trials. Similar articles
        Safety and Efficacy of Imatinib for Hospitalized Adults with COVID-19: A structured summary of a study protocol for a randomised controlled trial. Emadi A, Chua JV, Talwani R, Bentzen SM, Baddley J.
Emadi A, et al.
 Animal studies showed anti-cancer activity from nimbolide. For instance, nimbolide isolated from Neem at 5 and 20 mg/kg significantly reduced the growth of colorectal cancer xenografts in mice. Xenografts are tissues that are transplanted from one species to another. Moreover, a significant decreased in tumorigenic protein, such as those related to proliferation, survival, invasion, metastasis and angiogenesis, were also reported in the mice xenograft treated with nimbolide [39].An ethosomal formulation with soy lecithin (300 mg), ethanol (35%), luliconazole (100 mg) and Neem extract was more effective against Candida parapsilosis than Aspergillus niger in fungal culture tubes. In the same study, the in vitro drug permeation test with Wistar albino rat skin model demonstrated the release of 83.45 ± 2.51% in 24 h. Thus, luliconazole and Neem extract showed synergistic effects against fungal infections [40].Interestingly, A. indica was reported as a nutritional strategy for psoriasis in a recent study since it is rich in nimbidin. A significant reduction in the PASI (psoriasis area and severity index) score was observed after 12 weeks of consuming three capsules/day of A. indica in an RCT (randomized controlled trial) of 50 patients."
Question:Can burning neem leaves treat COVID-19?

No
18

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"We noted a non-linear J-shaped or linearity increase of the COVID-19 risk with the weekly amount of alcohol consumption across different substyles of alcoholic beverages. Studies have shown that long-term alcohol abuse and acute binge drinking are associated with immunosuppression and increased susceptibility to both bacterial and viral infections (19, 20). Therefore, heavy alcohol consumption was associated with a higher risk of COVID-19. However, in our dataset, only a few participants reported heavy alcohol consumption, which may be reflective of the healthier nature of study participants. The potential association of heavy alcohol consumption with COVID-19 and associated mortality should be further explored in a larger sample sized cohort (although ascertaining the prospective effect of heavy alcohol consumption would be challenging because heavy drinkers would be unlikely to volunteer for such studies). Hamer et al.
 Drinking alcohol can make coronavirus worse, WHO says, recommending restricted accessSkip NavigationMarketsPre-MarketsU.S. "Therefore, people should minimize their alcohol consumption at any time, and particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic," the office said. A view of people waiting in line at Cork & Bottle liquor store on 1st Avenue as the coronavirus continues to spread across the United States on March 21, 2020 in New York City.Cindy Ord | Getty ImagesDrinking alcohol can increase the risk of catching Covid-19 and make it worse if you do get it, the World Health Organization said, recommending that government leaders around the world limit access to alcohol during coronavirus lockdowns. "Alcohol compromises the body's immune system and increases the risk of adverse health outcomes," the WHO's regional office for Europe said on its site late Tuesday, citing heavy alcohol use throughout the continent.Alcohol consumption is associated with a number of communicable and noncommunicable diseases that can make a person more vulnerable to contracting Covid-19. It can also exacerbate mental health issues and risk-taking behavior and stoke violence, especially in countries that have implemented social distancing measures that largely keep the population quarantined in their homes.The WHO also published a fact sheet dispelling the "dangerous myth that consuming high-strength alcohol can kill" the coronavirus.
 Because alcohol can provide temporary numbness, some people think that it can cure whatever pain they are experiencing. However, it’s actually the opposite. When your mind or body is dealing with something, drinking alcohol can make your condition worse. This is also true when it comes to illnesses such as Covid-19. There is no truth to the false beliefs that drinking alcohol is a cure for Covid-19. On the contrary, alcohol is known to compromise the body’s immune system, making it harder for the body to fight infections."
Question:Can drinking alcohol worsen COVID-19?

Yes
19

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Heat, humidity and UV rays linked to COVID-19 spread, YSPH finds | YaleNews
Skip to main content
calendar
subscribe
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
RSS Feeds
YaleNews
Explore Topics
Alumni
Arts & Humanities
Business
Campus & Community
Environment
Health & Medicine
International
Law
Science & Technology
Social Sciences
In Focus
In Memoriam
Search form
Search 
Heat, humidity and UV rays linked to COVID-19 spread, YSPH findsThe new, Yale-led study provides one of the most robust bodies of scientific evidence yet linking weather conditions to the transmission of SARS-CoV-2.By Michael GreenwoodJune 14, 2021
Share this with Facebook
Share this with Twitter
Share this with LinkedIn
Share this with Email
Print this
While physical distancing and the use of face masks are well-known factors in preventing the spread of COVID-19, new research links meteorological variables such as temperature, humidity, and ultraviolet (UV) radiation to the transmission of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, the Yale School of Public Health (YSPH) finds. A research team led by Assistant Professor Kai Chen investigated 2,669 counties throughout all regions and states in the United States from March 15 to December 31, 2020 to determine how readily the virus was transmitted. They found that warmer temperatures (above 20° Celsius), increased humidity, and higher levels of UV radiation were moderately associated with a lower reproductive number (a measurement of how many new infections are caused by a single infected person in a fully susceptible population), meaning that these factors were likewise associated with decreased person-to-person transmission. Of the three factors, absolute humidity played the greatest role. The study, published today in the journal Nature Communications, provides one of the most robust bodies of scientific evidence yet linking weather conditions to the transmission of SARS-CoV-2. Early epidemiological studies of COVID-19 and meteorological factors offered uncertain and contradictory findings, mainly due to short study periods, inadequate control for confounding, and inappropriate COVID-19-related outcome variables and statistical methods.
 Although higher humidity may increase the atmospheric suspended matter [22], the amount of virus deposited on surfaces, and virus survival time in droplets on surfaces [44], the reduction of the virus spread by indirect air transmission may be an important factor behind the reduced spreading of COVID-19 in a humid climate. High temperature and high humidity reduce the transmission of others infections of the respiratory tract, like influenza [45, 46] and of SARS coronavirus [11, 39]. The main reasons are: the virus is more stable in cold temperatures, and respiratory droplets, as containers of viruses, remain in suspension longer in dry air [47]. Cold and dry weather can also demote the hosts’ immunity and make them more susceptible to the virus [48]. Many respiratory pathogens show seasonality and the human activity patterns and immunity can be influenced by environmental factors limited during the COVID-19 outbreak, due to the absence of extreme climatic conditions and specific immunity for a newly emerging virus [35]. Cold air temperature contributes to spread of viruses, including coronavirus, and the possibility of infection.
Op-ed: Humidity can aid in the fight against COVID-19 | News | Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health
Menu
Close Menu
Skip to content
Information For:
Prospective Students
Current Students
Alumni
Faculty & Staff
Friends & Supporters
A to Z index
Search for:
Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health
Email
People
Departments
Calendar
Careers
my.harvard
Giving
About
Faculty & Research
Admissions & Aid
Academics
Executive/Continuing Ed
News
						News					
  > News > In the News > 2020 > Op-ed: Humidity can aid in the fight against COVID-19				
News
Menu
Search for:
News Home
Press Releases
2020 Releases
2019 Releases
2018 Releases
2017 Releases
2016 Releases
2015 Releases
2014 Releases
2013 Releases
2012 Releases
2011 Releases
Search the press releases archive
Features
In the News
Multimedia
2022 Multimedia
2021 Multimedia
2020 Multimedia
2019 Multimedia
2018 Multimedia
2017 Multimedia
2016 Multimedia
2015  Multimedia
2014 Multimedia
2013 Multimedia
2012 Multimedia
HPH Magazine
Faculty Stories
Faculty News, Notes, and Accolades
Student Stories
Student News, Notes, and Accolades
Alumni Stories
Explore Research by Topic
Office of Communications
Make a Gift
Op-ed: Humidity can aid in the fight against COVID-19 
Maintaining relative humidity in the 40%-60% range in indoor spaces could help slow the spread of the coronavirus this winter, according to a November 18, 2020 Washington Post opinion piece co-authored by Joseph Allen, associate professor of exposure assessment science and director of the Healthy Buildings program at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. The authors explained that humidity can affect virus transmission in three ways. Studies suggest that higher humidity can enhance the body’s ability to fight off infection; that the coronavirus decays faster at close to 60% relative humidity than at other levels; and that drier air can lead to greater numbers of tiny coronavirus particles that travel farther and penetrate deeper into the lungs."
Question:Can high temperatures and humidity prevent COVID-19?

Yes
We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Remdesivir has demonstrated in vitro and in vivo activity against SARS-CoV-2.1 Remdesivir retains in vitro neutralization activity against the Omicron variant and its subvariants.2-5Intravenous remdesivir is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of COVID-19 in adults and pediatric patients aged ≥28 days and weighing ≥3 kg. In nonhospitalized patients with mild to moderate COVID-19 who are at high risk of progressing to severe disease, remdesivir should be started within 7 days of symptom onset and administered for 3 days. Hospitalized patients should receive remdesivir for 5 days or until hospital discharge, whichever comes first.6 See Table 4e for more information.Remdesivir has been studied in several clinical trials for the treatment of COVID-19. The recommendations from the COVID-19 Treatment Guidelines Panel (the Panel) are based on the results of these studies. See Table 4a for more information.RecommendationsFor the Panel’s recommendations and information on the clinical efficacy of using remdesivir to treat high-risk, nonhospitalized patients with mild to moderate COVID-19, see Therapeutic Management of Nonhospitalized Adults With COVID-19. For the Panel’s recommendations and information on the clinical efficacy of using remdesivir with or without immunomodulators to treat certain hospitalized patients, see Therapeutic Management of Hospitalized Adults With COVID-19.
 Other traits add to remdesivir's appeal. It's the only early treatment available to children under 12. Plus it works against omicron – while some other early treatment options do not. And, while other early treatments are in short supply, there's plenty of remdesivir to go around. Federal agencies now recommend remdesivir as one of four options for treating early COVID-19. These medicines, when started within five to 10 days of the onset of symptoms, could help patients who might get very sick from COVID-19 — such as some patients with cancer or chronic lung disease — rid their systems of the virus.
Treating with Remdesivir immediately after diagnosis of COVID-19 reduces the risk of hospitalization and death in vulnerable patients with severe disease by 87% | IrsiCaixa
Skip to main content
Transparency
Twitter
YouTube
Linkedin
cat
esp
eng
ABOUT US
RESEARCH
COVID-19
INNOVATION AND TRANSFER
LEARNING
LIVING LAB HEALTH
NEWS
COLLABORATE
Cerca
who are you? Who are you? I'm anInvestigator
I'mCommunity
I'm anEducatoror Student
I'm a Collaborator
I'm aJournalist
ACTUALITAT
Treating with Remdesivir immediately after diagnosis of COVID-19 reduces the risk of hospitalization and death in vulnerable patients with severe disease by 87%
Treating with Remdesivir immediately after diagnosis of COVID-19 reduces the risk of hospitalization and death in vulnerable patients with severe disease by 87%
More news
News
22/09/2021
Treating with Remdesivir immediately after diagnosis of COVID-19 reduces the risk of hospitalization and death in vulnerable patients with severe disease by 87%
The international study will be presented at the IDWeek international conference and includes the participation of 562 unvaccinated people
An international study with the participation of the Fight AIDS and Infectious Diseases Foundation, IrsiCaixa and the Infectious Diseases Service of the Germans Trias i Pujol University Hospital has shown that intravenous administration of the antiviral drug Remdesivir during the 3 days right after diagnosis of COVID-19 reduces the risk of hospitalization by 87% in people susceptible to severe disease. Administration of this drug has also decreased the number of disease-related medical visits by 81% (see table). Disease-related adverse events have been reduced from 7.1% in patients who did not receive treatment to 3.6% in patients who did receive the antiviral drug. A total of 562 unvaccinated individuals at high risk of severe COVID-19 for different reasons, such as diabetes, obesity or hypertension, participated in the study."
Question:Can remdesivir cure COVID-19?

No
20

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Time alone has hitherto proven most effective in their restoration, but turmeric, long believed by some to have medicinal properties, may be a swifter and surer alleviator of anosmia and ageusia. This case series reports the speedy and consequential restoration of taste and smell in two subjects infected with COVID-19 following ingestion of one 1000 mg dose of a turmeric supplement. In view of this, we propose that turmeric be considered in the treatment of anosmia and ageusia caused by COVID-19 infection.Keywords: curcumin, covid-19, coronavirus, sars-cov-2, anosmia, ageusia, hyposmia, dysgeusia, turmericIntroductionAnosmia and ageusia are common and often comorbid symptoms of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). The frequency of olfactory and gustatory dysfunction in infected individuals has been reported to be 19.4-88% [1]. While most of those infected recover smell and taste, up to 20% experience persistent anosmia or hyposmia and ageusia or dysgeusia after 30 days [2].The mechanisms by which COVID-19 causes anosmia and ageusia are unknown; they may be similar to those of other coronaviruses. Upper respiratory viruses are known to cause nasal mucosal swelling and olfactory cleft conductive blockade [3].
 Potential Effects of Curcumin in the Treatment of COVID ‐19 Infection. 34, 2911–2920. doi:10.1002/ptr.6738PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google ScholarZhang, H.-n., Yu, C.-x., Zhang, P.-j., Chen, W.-w., Jiang, A.-l., Kong, F., et al. (2007). Curcumin Down Regulates Homeobox Gene NKX3.1 in Prostate Cancer Cell LNCaP.
 Intravenous use of turmeric is very dangerous (even fatal) and is not recommended. Like many other substances, curcumin has been proposed as a possible treatment of COVID-19. Currently, research has not shown that curcumin is effective against COVID-19 in humans. You should not use this spice to prevent or treat symptoms of COVID-19. If you suspect someone has been exposed to curcumin and is having a problem, check the webPOISONCONTROL® online tool for guidance or call Poison Control at 1-800-222-1222."
Question:Can turmeric treat COVID-19?

No
21

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"In a single-centre, cross-sectional study of 206 Iranian patients with COVID-19, those with higher fruit and poultry consumption and lower tea consumption were less likely to have severe COVID-19.17 Our findings were similar to this prior study in that participants who reported following plant-based diets or a spectrum of plant-based diets (plant-based diets or pescatarian diets) had a non-significant higher intake of fruits. However, in our study, participants who were following plant-based diets or pescatarian diets had higher consumption of other food groups (vegetables, legumes, nuts) and lower consumption of poultry. Such differences in results may be due to differences in dietary patterns among Iranian adults relative to our study population, and our focus on dietary patterns rather than intake of specific food groups.Plant-based diets or vegetarian diets are dietary patterns that are high in plant foods and low in animal products.12 13 Consistent with this definition, participants who reported that they followed plant-based diets or vegetarian diets had higher intake of plant foods (vegetables, legumes, nuts) and lower intake of poultry and red and processed meat. Plant-based diets are rich in nutrients, especially phytochemicals (polyphenols, carotenoids),13 18 with prior studies reporting higher fibre, vitamins A, C, and E, folate, and mineral (iron, potassium, magnesium) intake among those with highest versus lowest adherence to plant-based diets.12 19 Studies have reported that supplementation of some of these nutrients, specifically, vitamins A, C, D, and E, decreased the risk of respiratory infections, such as the common cold and pneumonia, and shortened the duration of these illnesses.16 20–23 These nutrients are hypothesised to support the immune system as they play important roles in the production of antibodies, proliferation of lymphocytes, and reduction of oxidative stress.16 While previously, both specific micronutrient deficiencies as well as generalised malnutrition have been associated with immune dysfunction in the host, the viral pathogen itself may be affected by the nutritional deficiency as well.4 24 Multiple viruses, such as coxsackievirus and influenza, have been shown to develop increased virulence due to changes in their genomes as a consequence of replicating in a nutritionally deficient host (eg, deficiency in selenium).25 26 Selenium may be an important nutrient to consider, considering its role in immunity.16 27 Given our findings of protection from severe illness in those consuming a micronutrient-dense diet, our data support this hypothesis. We could not further explore individual nutrient levels in our study population because we did not have these data. Future studies with detailed information on plasma micronutrient levels are warranted to confirm our findings.Along with plant-based diets, individuals who reported following pescatarian diets had lower odds of severe COVID-19.
 Hence, we propose the hypothesis that vegetarian diets might prevent heart and kidney diseases as well as strengthen the immune system and lower comorbidities. The presence of fewer comorbidities may influence the severity of COVID-19 indirectly. An epidemiologic prospective cohort study by Merino et al. (1) suggests that plant-based foods were associated with lower severity of COVID-19, especially in areas of higher socioeconomic deprivation. In our study, the hospital setting enrolled a more severe and critical COVID-19 population and when there was no COVID-19 vaccination during pandemics, our findings agree with the results of their study. However, we did not explore other supplements of Vitamin B12, D3, or blood tests in our study population because it was a retrospective study.
 Dan-Cristian Pădureț/Unsplash
Study links healthy plant-based foods with lower risks of getting COVID-19 and of having severe disease after infection 
By Tracy Hampton MGH News and Public Affairs DateSeptember 10, 2021September 13, 2021 
Share
Email
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Also in the Series
				Measuring the power of vaccines			
				Severe COVID-19 linked with brain aging			
				Study details better outcomes for Omicron BA.2 patients			
				Is pandemic finally over? We asked the experts. View all of The Coronavirus Update		
Although metabolic conditions such as obesity and Type 2 diabetes have been linked to an increased risk of COVID-19, as well as an increased risk of experiencing serious symptoms once infected, the impact of diet on these risks is unknown. In a recent study led by researchers at Harvard-affiliated Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) and published in Gut, people whose diets were based on healthy plant-based foods had lower risks on both counts. The beneficial effects of diet on COVID-19 risk seemed especially relevant in individuals living in areas of high socioeconomic deprivation."
Question:Can a vegetarian diet prevent COVID-19?

No
22

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Will a flu vaccine protect me against COVID-19? Getting a flu vaccine will not protect against COVID-19, however flu vaccination has many other important benefits. Flu vaccines have been shown to reduce the risk or severity of flu illness, hospitalization, and death. Getting a flu vaccine this fall will be more important than ever, not only to reduce your risk from flu complications but also to help conserve potentially scarce health care resources. Yes
No
     Thank you for your feedback.
 Will a flu shot protect you from getting COVID-19? “The COVID vaccine does not protect you against the flu. And the flu vaccine does not protect you against COVID,” says James Cruz, MD. He’s the chief medical officer for Blue Shield of California Promise Health Plan. You need both shots to be protected.
 His team reported that flu vaccines were associated with a reduced risk of death in people hospitalized with COVID-19 in Brazil2.“This is an important piece of evidence,” says Mihai Netea, an infectious-disease specialist at Radboud University Medical Center in Nijmegen, the Netherlands. The observation that influenza vaccines are linked to a reduction in not just SARS-CoV-2 infections, but also disease severity, strongly suggests that the protection is genuine, he adds.Time limitHow long this protection lasts is unclear. Among those in the Qatar study who had the flu jab and later contracted COVID-19, Abu-Raddad’s team recorded SARS-CoV-2 infections occurring, on average, about six weeks after vaccination. “I don’t expect to see this effect lasting long at all,” he says. Netea guesses that the benefits last for between six months and two years.It’s not fully clear why flu vaccines — which are composed of killed influenza viruses — would also protect against COVID-19. Vaccines train the immune system to recognize specific pathogens, but they also rev up broad-acting antiviral defences, says Netea, who has found signs of such responses in flu-vaccine recipients3.Netea’s team is also working to better quantify the benefits of vaccines targeting influenza and other diseases against COVID-19."
Question:Can getting a flu shot prevent COVID-19?

No
23

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"3
 The incidence of HTN and COVID‐19 were reported by the Chinese Center for Disease Control to be 12.8% worldwide, while other studies have reported as high as 30% and 31%. 4
, 
5
 Angiotensin‐converting enzyme (ACEi) and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARB) are the most widely prescribed antihypertensives in the market. 6
 There is contradictory evidence that ACEi or ARBs may either worsen or improve COVID‐19 symptoms. The proposed mechanism is discussed below.ACE2 is a glycoprotein that is expressed in the kidney, intestine, endothelium, lungs, and heart. 7
 It is hypothesized to bind with the spiked glycoprotein in SARS‐Cov2. Once the binding occurs, SARS‐CoV2 can cause downregulation of ACE2 resulting in increased concentrations of angiotensin II causing severe lung injury.
 Multivariable analysis—After adjustment for age, gender, race/ethnicity, English proficiency, comorbid conditions and date of study entry, ACEI/ARB use was associated with a significantly decreased risk of being diagnosed with COVID-19 (OR, 0.60; 95% CI, 0.44–0.81; P=0.00). The results were similar when ACEI and ARB use were analyzed separately. Sensitivity Analyses
The strength of the association between ACEI/ARB use and decreased COVID-19 risk was similar in all subgroups studied: diagnosis of hypertension, diabetes or cardiovascular disease; age ≥65; and body mass index ≥30. No other medication classes were associated with a reduced risk of COVID-19. Support for the Current Guidance
Results from this observational study do not prove ACEIs/ARBs protect against COVID-19. However, they support the current professional society recommendations that the use of these medications should not be discontinued because of concern about COVID-19.
 [23] Some researchers hypothesized that for the differences in severity of COVID-19, the impact of ACEI/ARBs use on patients were differ. A referral center cohort study in Northeast of France enrolled 149 patients with severe COVID-19 showed that there was a deleterious effect of long-term therapy with ACEI/ARBs among patients with severe COVID-19 with regard to their risk of developing acute kidney injury and acute respiratory failure. [24] However, Yang et al. [25] found that the ACEI/ARBs treatment could result in a marginally lower death rate and less critical cases in patients with COVID-19 and hypertension, which supported the use of ACEI/ARBs in COVID-19 patients with hypertension. In addition, Di et al. [26] found that there was no association between the use of ACEI/ARBs and COVID-19 severity or in-hospital mortality in COVID-19 patients."
Question:Can ACE and ARBs worsen COVID-19?

No
24

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Conclusions:
      Current smoking status was associated with a lower risk of developing Covid-19 but cannot be considered as efficient protection against infection. The mechanism of the lower susceptibility of smokers to SARS-CoV-2 requires further research. Trial registration:
      IRB no. : 0011873-2020-09. Implications:
      (1) Recent epidemiologic data suggest a paradoxical link between smoking and COVID-19. (2) Among the 1688 crewmembers (with an attack rate of 76% and exposed at the same time in the same place to SARS-CoV2), we found a significantly lower risk for developing COVID-19 in current smokers (71%) versus former and nonsmokers (80%).
 The World Health Organization said “Smoking impairs lung function making it harder for the body to fight off coronaviruses and other diseases.”
Are smokers more or less likely to catch Covid-19? We don’t know for sure whether or not smokers are more likely to catch coronavirus, although we do know they are more likely to become seriously ill with Covid-19. On the one hand, some early articles suggested that smoking could increase your chances of being infected, as smokers tend to touch their face and mouth more often. On the other hand, a recent evidence review by London researchers suggests people who currently smoke may be less likely to be infected with coronavirus. One study suggests this could be because nicotine interferes with ACE2 receptors, which may prevent the virus from entering cells. The researchers said that more scientific research is needed to understand these mixed findings, as the link is still not clear.
 Are smokers protected against SARS-CoV-2 infection (COVID-19)? The origins of the myth. Med. 31, 10 (2021)."
Question:Can smoking prevent COVID-19?

No
25

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"In 2020, scientists started talking about a link between blood type and Covid. That year, research in the journal PLOS Genetics revealed that people with Type A blood are more likely to have a severe case of Covid-19. A previous study in the journal Blood Advances from 2020 also affirmed this research, adding that people with Type O blood seem to be more protected from Covid.Researchers in China first shared this idea in March 2020, and the findings were echoed by a paper out of Columbia University a month later. Even DNA testing company 23andMe tapped their customers and found that among 750,000 people who were diagnosed and hospitalized for Covid (this was prior to vaccines), those with type O were more protected.Then, a study published in the New England Journal of Medicine confirmed the idea with a peer-reviewed study: Folks with Type A blood were 45 percent more likely to become infected with Covid than those with other blood types, while those with Type O were 35 percent less likely.Where are we now, in 2022, on blood type and Covid? Additional research and review papers have confirmed that we're in more or less the same place: It looks like there really is an association between Type A blood and susceptibility to Covid and Type O blood and less susceptibility. Yet no research so far has been able to pin down the molecular goings on that explain the mechanism behind why this might be so.
 In this cohort, the majority (74%) of COVID-19–positive subjects had mild disease and did not require inpatient hospitalization. Data from tested subjects were compared with 2,204,742 nontested individuals, which accounted for nearly 40% of the total Danish population. The authors found that individuals with type O blood were relatively protected from viral infection (relative risk (RR) = 0.87; 95% CI, 0.82–0.91). Unlike previous studies, however, there was no difference between ABO blood type and progression of illness to hospitalization or mortality (each, P > .40). Rh typing was not collected in this analysis.In our investigation, we performed a multi-institutional analysis across 5 hospitals in the New England region [18]. A total of 7,648 patients were tested for SARS-CoV-2 during the study period, of which 1,289 (16.9%) were positive.
 Yet these risks are relative, meaning people with type O blood are not immune to COVID-19. "We do know that people of all types can get infected with COVID-19," says cardiologist Daniel Anderson, MD, PhD. Your blood type may also affect how severe the progression of COVID-19 will be. "Some evidence shows the severity of the infection is associated with different blood cell types, but the mechanisms by which it happens are unclear," says Dr. Anderson. Blood type is not the only factor in disease severity. How much virus you were exposed to, your age, plus any of your underlying health conditions also affects the course and severity of the disease."
Question:Can having type O blood prevent COVID-19?

No
26

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Findings were summarized in four categories: 1) epidemiology; 2) clinical findings and patients' management; 3) causes; and 4) recommendation regarding prevention or reduction of methanol poisoning during COVID-19 pandemic.ConclusionThe recent outbreak is the largest methanol mass poisoning outbreak throughout Iran and the world in recent decades. The causes of methanol poisoning during the COVID-19 pandemic are intertwined, and most of them are modifiable by health policy makers. Building trust, educating and warning, as well as controlling and monitoring are three main recommendation for prevention or reduction of methanol poisoning.Keywords: Methanol, Poisoning, COVID-19, Pandemic1. IntroductionThe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an infectious disease that first appeared in December 2019 in China. Symptoms of the virus range from mild to severe disease, and in some cases can be fatal [1,2]. The long-term effects of COVID-19 on physical and mental health are still under study [3].
 Drinking them can lead to disability and death. Methanol, ethanol, and bleach are sometimes used in cleaning products to kill the virus on surfaces – however you should never drink them. They will not kill
the virus in your body and they will harm your internal organs.To protect yourself against COVID-19, disinfect objects and surfaces, especially the ones you touch regularly. You can use diluted bleach or alcohol for that. Make sure you clean your hands frequently and thoroughly and avoid touching your eyes, mouth
and nose. Infographic
COVID-19: Drinking methanol, ethanol or bleach DOES NOT prevent or cure COVID-19 and can be extremely dangerous
FACT: Exposing yourself to the sun or temperatures higher than 25°C DOES NOT protect you from COVID-19You can catch COVID-19, no matter how sunny or hot the weather is.
 global healthinfectious diseases, viralpoisoning, mass incidentspoisoningtoxicologyDear editorMethanol ingestion can be a highly lethal poisoning; methanol is metabolised to formaldehyde and formic acid, which are extremely toxic to the central nervous system and the gastrointestinal tract leading to a triad of visual impairment, gastrointestinal symptoms and metabolic acidosis in 6–24 hours.1Haemorrhagic and non-haemorrhagic necrosis of basal ganglia, white matter necrosis, and diffuse brain oedema may result in a grave prognosis.2 3 Although alcohol consumption is illegal in the Islamic Republic of Iran, as well as many other Islamic countries based on religious reasons, there have been sporadic reports of alcohol poisoning, usually in the form of methanol intoxication, mostly found in illegally produced alcoholic beverages. Previous outbreaks of methanol poisoning in Iran in 2007, 2013 and 2018, resulted in substantial morbidity and mortality.2–4 The most recent outbreak, and perhaps the most significant, coincides with the coronavirus pandemic. Our records show a dramatic increase in cases of methanol intoxication in March and April 2020; as of 16 April 2020, there have been 797 cases of methanol poisoning with 97 deaths in the Fars province, Iran, reported by the Head of Emergency Medical Service of the Fars province.5 These numbers, from a single province, supersede the previous largest report from the whole country (768 intoxicated subjects) in 2018,4 and there are similar reports of methanol poisonings in several other centres throughout the country during this period.Unlike prior outbreaks, the current outbreak of methanol poisoning appears to be due to the belief that consumption of disinfectants and sanitizers, specifically, alcohol, would be beneficial in preventing the COVID-19 infection. This is supported by several cases of methanol poisoning in children resulting from a desperate attempt by parents to prevent or cure the infection. When facing a serious health threat, refractory to the available remedies, such irrational decision making is anticipated, leading to quack cures and dubious prophylactic measures.6 Appropriate public education is mandatory to fight the misinformation that is being spread through social media about the alcohol and other similar disinfecting agents. This is essential to prevent further morbidity and mortality and also to protect an already exhausted healthcare system from excess burden during a devastating pandemic.References↵
Gallagher N
, 
Edwards FJ
."
Question:Can methanol prevent COVID-19?

No
27

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Photograph: Photographer is my life./Getty ImagesJames TapperSun 14 Feb 2021 10.00 GMTLast modified on Mon 15 Feb 2021 10.52 GMTIs handwashing still an important way to reduce the spread of Covid-19?In the early days of the pandemic, public health experts emphasised handwashing as a way to prevent infection and the government launched a “Hands, Face, Space” campaign to encourage people to wash their hands, wear masks and keep 2 metres apart. Subsequent research has shown the biggest risk of Covid-19 transmission is through particles in the air.Why did we focus on handwashing?When little was known about Covid-19, researchers focused on fomites – surfaces such as handrails where the virus might be able to survive without a host for some time – because other diseases such as norovirus can be transmitted that way. How does Covid-19 spread?Surface transmission may happen, but speaking and coughing seem to play a much larger role, because we emit tiny aerosol water particles containing the virus. Indoors, those particles can linger for minutes or hours, leading the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to suggest last week that people wear two masks. It now says surface transmission is “not thought to be a common way that Covid-19 spreads”.Can handwashing prevent the spread of Covid-19?Although there is limited evidence that fomites do play a role, there is no evidence that Covid does not linger on surfaces. Public Health England put handwashing and surface cleaning at the top of updated guidance published earlier this month.
 ‘Handwashing has always been one of most effective ways of keeping diseases at bay. It is a simple act that pays in dividends when it comes to keeping ourselves healthy and safe. Handwashing is also one of the key cornerstones of COVID-19 prevention. Now more than ever as we embrace the new normal and live with COVID-19, hand hygiene needs to become an integral part of our daily routine and our lives, as we live through this pandemic, and beyond, to protect us from diseases,’ said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region. With COVID-19 transmission mainly spreading between people through direct, indirect (through contaminated objects or surfaces), or close contact with infected people via mouth and nose secretions, washing hands with soap and running water is of critical importance. To stop the spread of COVID-19, along with other COVID appropriate behaviours, the practice of handwashing at regular intervals is a must, after coughing or sneezing, when caring for the sick, after using the toilet, before eating, while preparing food and after handling animals or animal waste.
 Read more about ways to protect yourself and others during the COVID-19 pandemic. Regular handwashing is one of the best ways to remove germs, avoid getting sick, and prevent the spread of germs to others. Whether you are at home, at work, traveling, or out in the community, find out how handwashing with soap and water can protect you and your family. Why Wash Your Hands?Keeping hands clean can prevent 1 in 3 diarrheal illnesses and 1 in 5 respiratory infections, such as a cold or the flu. Hand Hygiene at SchoolSchool-based programs promoting hand hygiene can result in less illness and fewer missed school days. Handwashing: A Family ActivityWhen your family is healthy, you don’t have to worry about missing school, work, or other activities."
Question:Can handwashing prevent COVID-19?

Yes
28

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Several arguments suggest that nicotine is responsible for this protective effect via the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR). Nicotine may inhibit the penetration and spread of the virus and have a prophylactic effect in COVID-19 infection. However, the epidemic is progressing throughout French territory and new variants (in particular the "English B1. 1.7 variant of SARS-COV-2") much more contagious run a risk of accelerating the epidemic in the population. The anti-SARS-COV-2 vaccines recently launched (or being evaluated) represent great hope in this health crisis, but trials were only able to show their effectiveness on symptomatic forms of SARS-COV-2 infection. On the one hand, the vaccination compaign for the entire population requires many months,which leaves many unprotected subjects waiting.
 2022;  (published online Aug 16. )https://doi.org/10.1016/S2213-2600(22)00182-5Summary
Full Text
Full Text PDF
Scopus (1)
Google Scholar—on the basis of cellular and animal studies—that nicotine might reduce the risk of COVID-19 by either competing with the virus for surface binding or attenuating inflammation must, at the very least, be treated with great caution. Indeed, the limited published evidence to date on the effect of nicotine on airway cells in vitro suggests that it can induce rapid and long-lasting increases in gene and protein expression of ACE2, which in turn increases the capacity of SARS-CoV-2 to replicate in cells and cause a cytopathic effect.11Maggi F Rosellini A Spezia PG et al.Nicotine upregulates ACE2 expression and increases competence for SARS-CoV-2 in human pneumocytes.ERJ Open Res. 2021; 7 (00713-2020. )Crossref
Scopus (10)
Google Scholar Clearly, more cellular, animal, and epidemiological studies are urgently needed. Because a COVID-19 diagnosis was five times more likely among ever-users of e-cigarettes in the only study identified by Benowitz and colleagues8Benowitz NL Goniewicz ML Halpern-Felsher B et al.Tobacco product use and the risks of SARS-CoV-2 infection and COVID-19: current understanding and recommendations for future research.Lancet Respir Med.
 Due to the harmfulness of cigarettes, a high frequency of smokers is suspected among people suffering from COVID-19. However, some studies report that the number of current smokers hospitalized for SARS-CoV-2 infection is lower than expected, considering the prevalence of smoking in individual countries. Nicotine could restore the impaired function of the nicotine cholinergic system and possibly mitigate the cytokine storm. Conclusions:
      There is no clear attitude regarding the impact of smoking on the new coronavirus infection now. Researchers do not recommend smoking as a tool to combat the pandemic and show the importance of fighting addiction to reduce the adverse health effects of smoking. Both the relationship between cigarettes and the morbidity and severity of COVID-19, as well as the possibility of using nicotine in the treatment of the disease, require further analysis."
Question:Can Nicotine help COVID-19?

No
We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Therapeutic Effects of Cannabinoids and Their Applications in COVID-19 Treatment. Pérez R, Glaser T, Villegas C, Burgos V, Ulrich H, Paz C.
Pérez R, et al. Life (Basel). 2022 Dec 15;12(12):2117. doi: 10.3390/life12122117. Life (Basel).
Just a moment...
            www.science.org
            Checking if the site connection is secure
                        Enable JavaScript and cookies to continue
            www.science.org needs to review the security of your connection before proceeding.
 Therefore, we were unable to factor in substance use disorder into our inverse probability weighting process.ConclusionsIn this retrospective review of 1831 COVID-19 patients requiring hospital admission, current cannabis use was associated with decreased disease severity. This was demonstrated in lower NIH severity scores as well as less need for oxygen supplementation, ICU admission and mechanical ventilation. While there was a trend toward improved survival in cannabis users, this was not statistically significant. To our knowledge, this is the first study looking at clinical outcomes of cannabis users hospitalized with COVID-19. Further studies, including prospective analyses, will help to better understand the relationship between cannabis and COVID-19 outcomes. Availability of data and materials
The datasets used and/or analyzed during the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request."
Question:Can Cannabis help COVID-19?

Yes
We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"We will continue to investigate risks associated with the use of hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine for COVID-19 and communicate publicly when we have more information. Hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine have not been shown to be safe and effective for treating or preventing COVID-19. They are being studied in clinical trials for COVID-19, and we authorized their temporary use during the COVID-19 pandemic for treatment of the virus in hospitalized patients when clinical trials are not available, or participation is not feasible, through an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA). The medicines being used under the hydroxychloroquine/chloroquine EUA are supplied from the Strategic National Stockpile, the national repository of critical medical supplies to be used during public health emergencies. This safety communication reminds physicians and the public of risk information set out in the hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine healthcare provider fact sheets  that were required by the EUA. Hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine can cause abnormal heart rhythms such as QT interval prolongation and a dangerously rapid heart rate called ventricular tachycardia.
 Overall, HCQ is effective against COVID-19. There is no credible evidence that HCQ results in worsening of COVID-19. HCQ has also been shown to be safe for the treatment of COVID-19 when responsibly used.Conflict of interestNone declared.References1. Monforte AdA., Tavelli A., Bai F., Marchetti G., Cozzi-Lepri A. Effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine in COVID-19 disease: a done and dusted situation? Int J Infect Dis.
 In the 5 days following randomization, 13 patients (5.9% of 221 patients with QTc assessed) in the hydroxychloroquine group and 7 patients (3.3% of 214 patients with QTc assessed) in the placebo group had a recorded QTc interval greater than 500 ms. A total of 30 serious adverse events were reported, including 18 serious adverse events from 14 patients (5.8%) in the hydroxychloroquine group and 12 serious adverse events from 11 patients (4.6%) in the placebo group. Discussion
In this multicenter, blinded, placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial conducted at 34 US hospitals, treatment with hydroxychloroquine did not improve or worsen clinical outcomes for adults hospitalized for respiratory illness from COVID-19. These findings were consistent in all subgroups and for all outcomes evaluated, including an ordinal scale of clinical status, mortality, organ failures, duration of oxygen use, and hospital length of stay. Enthusiasm for hydroxychloroquine as a potential therapy for COVID-19 was sparked by in vitro studies that suggested it limited entry of SARS-CoV-2 into human cells by inhibiting glycosylation of cell receptors targeted by coronaviruses and increasing endosomal pH, thereby reducing endosome-mediated viral entry.6-8 Additionally, hydroxychloroquine reduces the production of several proinflammatory cytokines involved in the development of acute respiratory distress syndrome, a severe manifestation of COVID-19.3-5 These factors, combined with broad availability, oral administration, and perceived safety based on historical use in the treatment of malaria and rheumatologic diseases,4 led to widespread clinical use of hydroxychloroquine for COVID-19.10,15 On March 28, 2020, the FDA issued an Emergency Use Authorization for hydroxychloroquine to treat adults hospitalized with COVID-19,29 which was later revoked on June 15, 2020.30 
The finding of this clinical trial that hydroxychloroquine was not efficacious for the treatment of COVID-19 is consistent with results from recent in vitro studies suggesting no antiviral activity for hydroxychloroquine against SARS-CoV-231,32 and open-label pragmatic trials in the United Kingdom33 and Brazil34 suggesting no clinical benefit. Interpreted along with these prior studies, the results of this trial provide strong evidence that hydroxychloroquine is not beneficial for adults hospitalized with COVID-19. Strengths of this trial included its blinded, placebo-controlled design, high adherence to the study protocol, rigorous monitoring for safety events and adverse events, and rapid recruitment from geographically diverse hospitals serving ethnically and racially diverse populations within the US."
Question:Can Hydroxychloroquine worsen COVID-19?

No
We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Therefore, monoclonal antibodies are therapeutic mechanisms that, by binding to the viral spike protein and angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptors, impede viral invasion. For example, in the case of COVID-19, monoclonal antibodies are administered intravenously, and act similarly to the immune system.4,5In short, COVID-19 is an infectious disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which presents specific receptors in its lipid membrane. Therefore, monoclonal antibodies may be an alternative treatment for COVID-19, as they may prevent the virus from entering cells and continuing to replicate; their therapeutic potential remains under research, as this treatment would help to reduce the number of hospital and intensive care admissions.Ethics approvalNot required.Conflicts of interestThe authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.FundingThis study has received no funding of any kind. Appendix A Supplementary data Supplementary material. [En línea], 26 (2021), pp.
 However, laboratory studies have found that the activity of anti-SARS-CoV-2 mAbs against specific variants and subvariants can vary dramatically. Because of this, these products are not expected to be effective treatments for COVID-19 in areas where the circulating variants and subvariants are resistant to mAbs.RecommendationThe COVID-19 Treatment Guidelines Panel (the Panel) recommends against the use of anti-SARS-CoV-2 mAbs for the treatment of COVID-19 (AIII) because the dominant Omicron subvariants in the United States are not expected to be susceptible to these products. For the Panel’s recommendations on treating nonhospitalized patients with COVID-19, see Therapeutic Management of Nonhospitalized Adults With COVID-19 and Therapeutic Management of Nonhospitalized Children With COVID-19.Anti-SARS-CoV-2 Monoclonal Antibodies That Have Received Emergency Use AuthorizationsFour anti-SARS-CoV-2 mAb products (bamlanivimab plus etesevimab, casirivimab plus imdevimab, sotrovimab, and bebtelovimab) received Emergency Use Authorizations from the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of outpatients with mild to moderate COVID-19. However, they are not currently authorized for use in the United States because the dominant circulating Omicron subvariants are not expected to be susceptible to these products. See the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention COVID Data Tracker for regular updates on the regional proportions of SARS-CoV-2 variants in the United States.Tixagevimab plus cilgavimab (Evusheld) is the only anti-SARS-CoV-2 mAb product that is currently authorized for use as pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP). These recombinant human mAbs bind to nonoverlapping epitopes of the spike protein receptor-binding domain of SARS-CoV-2.
 Based on the FDA’s review of the totality of the scientific evidence available, the agency has determined that it is reasonable to believe that bebtelovimab may be effective in treating certain patients with mild or moderate COVID-19. When used to treat COVID-19 for the authorized population, the known and potential benefits of these antibodies outweigh the known and potential risks. There are no adequate, approved and available alternative treatments to bebtelovimab. The EUA for bebtelovimab is supported by clinical and nonclinical data. The clinical data are from a phase 2, randomized, single-dose clinical trial evaluating the efficacy of bebtelovimab alone and bebtelovimab combined with other monoclonal antibodies for treating mild to moderate COVID-19. What you need to know:
Bebtelovimab works by binding to the spike protein of the virus that causes COVID-19, similar to other monoclonal antibodies that have been authorized for the treatment of high-risk patients with mild to moderate COVID-19 and shown a benefit in reducing the risk of hospitalization or death."
Question:Can monoclonal antibodies cure COVID-19?

No
29

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"This site requires JavaScript to be enabled.
 "Reports of drinking bleach to prevent COVID-19 skewed by "problematic" claims". (accessed January 30, 2023).HarvardRobertson, Sally. 2020. Reports of drinking bleach to prevent COVID-19 skewed by "problematic" claims.
COVID-19 – Disinfecting with Bleach - Center for Research on Ingredient Safety
Search
Search
 Center for Research on Ingredient Safety
News & Views
Who We Are
Research
Our Future: Graduate Training
Become A Partner! COVID-19 – Disinfecting with Bleach
Elisabeth Anderson, Jinpeng Li -
                    March 13, 2020
Share
Tweet
Save
Share
Print
Email
In this post, we explain how you can use liquid household bleach to disinfect hard surfaces. As we work together to combat the novel coronavirus that causes the disease commonly known as COVID-19, it’s essential to know how to create and use effective cleaning solutions. In this post, we explain how you can use liquid household bleach to disinfect hard surfaces. What is household bleach? Liquid household bleach is a chemical used frequently in laundering white clothing and disinfecting hard surfaces."
Question:Can bleach prevent COVID-19?

No.
We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"About Us - University of Rochester Medical Center
Skip to main content
Coronavirus (COVID-19): Latest Updates | Visitation PoliciesVisitation PoliciesVisitation PoliciesVisitation PoliciesVisitation Policies | COVID-19 Testing | Vaccine InformationVaccine InformationVaccine Information
CLINICAL SERVICES
Services Listing
Patient Care Locations
Cost Estimator
Find a Doctor
Information for Referring Physicians
MYCHART LOGIN
EDUCATION
School of Medicine & Dentistry
School of Nursing
Graduate Education
Residency & Fellowships
Dental Education
Faculty By Department
Library Services
RESEARCH
Our Researchers
Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute
URMC Research Network
Labs Listing
UR Ventures
Clinical Trials & Studies
Research @ URMC Blog
ABOUT URMC
Maps & Directions
Giving to URMC
Departments & Centers List
Contact Information
Newsroom
Event Calendar
URMC Home
Explore URMC
menu
Patients & Families
Our Hospitals
Clinical Departments & Centers
Health Matters Blog
Services Listing
Pay Bill
Health Encyclopedia
Find a Provider
For Referring Physicians at the University of Rochester
More information on Patients & Families
Education
Medical Education
Residency & Fellowship
Graduate Education 
Postdoctoral Affairs
Dental Education
Nursing Education
Libraries
Alumni
More information on Education
URMC Research
URMC Research Labs
UR Health Research
Education & Training at the University of Rochester
Shared Resource Labs and Facilities
Technology Transfer
More information on Research
Community
Center for Community Health & Prevention
Government & Community Relations
Monroe County Community Health Improvement Plan
Pediatric Community Resources
Community Dentistry
Mental Health Community Resources
Health Research
Employee Wellness Programs
More information on Community
About URMC
Directions to our locations
Departments & Centers
More information on URMC
For Referring Physicians at UR Medicine
Get Care Now
MyChart Login
About URMC
Directions to Our Locations
Parking Information
Fast Facts
Our Accomplishments
Diversity
Our Values & Culture
History of URMC
Contact Us
URMC / About Us
About Us
The University of Rochester Medical Center (URMC) is one of the nation’s leading academic medical centers. It forms the centerpiece of the University of Rochester’s health research, teaching and patient care missions. The University of Rochester Medical Center is a private, coeducational, nonsectarian, and nonprofit research university. The medical center includes Strong Memorial Hospital, the Eastman Institute for Oral Health, the University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, with its faculty practice (University of Rochester Medical Faculty Group), and the University of Rochester School of Nursing. Clinical Care
The University of Rochester Medical Center’s clinical enterprise, UR Medicine, consists of six hospitals located throughout the Finger Lakes and Southern Tier regions – Strong Memorial, Highland, F.F. Thompson, Noyes Memorial, Jones Memorial, and St. James hospitals – as well as Golisano Children’s Hospital, James P. Wilmot Cancer Center, Eastman Institute for Oral Health, UR Medicine Home Care, the Highlands at Pittsford and Highlands at Brighton, nine urgent care centers, and an extensive primary care network.
 New Evidence Suggests ‘Yes’
URMC co-authored study indicates that breastfeeding is safe for COVID positive mothers
A study conducted by researchers at the University of Rochester Medical Center (URMC) – in collaboration with several other universities - indicates that breastfeeding women with COVID-19 do not transmit the SARS-CoV-2 virus through their milk, but do confer milk-borne antibodies that are able to neutralize the virus. Drs. Bridget Young, Kirsi Jarvinen-Seppo and Antti Seppo were part of the breast milk research team
The study, “Characterization of SARS-CoV-2 RNA, antibodies, and neutralizing capacity in milk produced by women with COVID-19,” published on February 9 in the journal mBio – analyzed 37 milk samples submitted by 18 women diagnosed with COVID-19. None of the milk samples were found to contain the virus, while nearly two thirds of the samples did contain two antibodies specific to the virus. Critically, this study provides evidence that COVID-19 positive mothers should not be separated from their newborn children. At the onset of the pandemic, major health organizations have often provided contradictory advice on whether this separation was necessary.
 BackgroundIn contrast to other respiratory viruses, children have been less affected by COVID-19 than adults. Furthermore, for reasons that remain elusive, the vast majority of reported infections in children are mild or asymptomatic [1, 2]. Recent reviews have proposed a wide range of mechanisms for this difference, including factors such as concurrent infections, differences in microbiota, anti-oxidative properties, or protective effects of global active viral immunization of children from birth till 6 years [3].However, as far as we know, the role of pre-exposure to mother’s milk as a protective factor against COVID-19 has not been critically reviewed. Human milk contains an array of antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory compounds that confer long-term benefits against infections years after lactation is terminated [4]. Since it is acknowledged that severe COVID-19 is associated with uncontrolled inflammation, and more recently research has focused on host iron dysregulation [5], breastfeeding may have a protective role to play. It has been reported worldwide that children who were ever breastfed show lower blood levels of both ferritin [6] and biomarkers that are severely increased during the cytokine burst (i.e., serum monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 or uric acid) than their formula fed peers [7,8,9]."
Question:Can breast milk prevent COVID-19?

Yes
We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Conclusions:
      The persistent decline of Hib vaccination rate due to COVID-19 causes an incremental disease burden irrespective of the possible decline of Hib transmission rate by COVID-19 mitigation measures. A rapid recovery of vaccination coverage rate can prevent this possible incremental disease burden. Keywords:
      COVID-19; Coronavirus; Disease burden; Haemophilus influenzae; Impact; Mathematical model; Quality-adjusted life years; SARS-CoV-2; Vaccine preventable diseases. Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. Conflict of interest statement
Declaration of Competing Interest The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. Similar articles
        Modelling the effects of booster dose vaccination schedules and recommendations for public health immunization programs: the case of Haemophilus influenzae serotype b.
Charania NA, Moghadas SM.
 Pneumococcal and Hib vaccinations should protect coronavirus patients from these infections and thus significantly cut the risk of serious pneumonia. I also found that pneumococcal, Hib and possibly rubella vaccines may confer specific protection against the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes COVID-19 by means of “molecular mimicry.”  
Molecular mimicry occurs when the immune system thinks one microbe looks like another. In this case, proteins found in pneumococcal vaccines and, to a lesser degree, ones found in Hib and rubella vaccines as well look like several proteins produced by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Two of these proteins found in pneumococcal vaccines mimic the spike and membrane proteins that permit the virus to infect cells. This suggests pneumococcal vaccination may prevent SARS-CoV-2 infection. Two other mimics are the nucleoprotein and replicase that control virus replication.
 Recipients of a hematopoietic stem cell transplant should be vaccinated with a 3-dose series of Hib vaccine 6 to 12 months after a successful transplant, regardless of vaccination history; at least 4 weeks should separate doses. Hib vaccine is not recommended for adults with HIV infection since their risk for Hib disease is low. Back to top
COVID-19 Vaccination Questions
Q: Who is eligible to receive a booster dose of a COVID-19 vaccine? A: ACIP recommends that all people age 5 years and older who have completed primary vaccination against COVID-19 with an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine or the Janssen COVID-19 Vaccine (Johnson & Johnson) should receive at least one age-appropriate COVID-19 vaccine booster dose at the appropriate interval. Novavax COVID-19 Vaccine primary series recipients are not yet recommended to receive a booster dose and the Novavax vaccine is not yet authorized for use as a booster dose for individuals who received a different primary series vaccine. The mRNA COVID-19 vaccines should be used when booster doses are indicated in almost all circumstances."
Question:Can Hib vaccine prevent COVID-19?

No
30

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Read more about COVID-19 symptoms in adults and children on the NHS website. Your reliever inhaler cannot help coronavirus symptoms
The reliever inhaler you use for your asthma symptoms may not help with similar symptoms, like breathlessness and coughing, caused by coronavirus. If you’re not sure if it’s your asthma getting worse or your coronavirus symptoms, use your reliever and spacer anyway and call your GP or 111 for advice. If you've tested positive for COVID-19 or have coronavirus symptoms you may be wondering how it’s going to affect your asthma and what you should do now. Here we list five key things you need to do:
1.
 The anti-inflammatory action of inhaled corticosteroids might have the potential to reduce the risk of severe illness resulting from hyperinflammation in COVID-19. Objectives:
      To assess whether inhaled corticosteroids are effective and safe in the treatment of COVID-19; and to maintain the currency of the evidence, using a living systematic review approach. Search methods:
      We searched the Cochrane COVID-19 Study Register (which includes CENTRAL, PubMed, Embase, ClinicalTrials.gov, WHO ICTRP, and medRxiv), Web of Science (Science Citation Index, Emerging Citation Index), and the WHO COVID-19 Global literature on coronavirus disease to identify completed and ongoing studies to 7 October 2021. Selection criteria:
      We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating inhaled corticosteroids for COVID-19, irrespective of disease severity, age, sex, or ethnicity. We included the following interventions: any type or dose of inhaled corticosteroids. We included the following comparison: inhaled corticosteroids plus standard care versus standard care (with or without placebo).
 Better health. Cochrane Evidence Synthesis and Methods ►
Are inhaled corticosteroids an effective treatment for people with mild COVID-19? Key messages
Inhaled corticosteroids (anti-inflammatory medicines) given via the oral inhaled route are evaluated for treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).We identified three published studies for people with mild disease. Inhaled corticosteroids probably reduce the risk of people going to hospital or death (admission to hospital or death before hospital admission). Inhaled corticosteroids may lower the number of days people have symptoms of mild COVID-19 and probably increase resolution of COVID-19 symptoms at day 14. They may make little to no difference in death from any cause, and we do not have enough evidence to know whether they cause serious harms.There are no data for people with COVID-19 with no symptoms (asymptomatic) or people with moderate-to-severe COVID-19.We found 10 ongoing and four completed unpublished studies."
Question:Can inhalers help COVID-19?

No
31

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"An action is needed to treat this condition in COVID-19 patients. Omega 3 fatty acids may be one possibility associated with COVID-19 prevention, management, and treatment. Therefore, this review aimed to identify the existing studies on potency of omega 3 fatty acid supplementation on COVID-19. We searched studies from PubMed, Google Scholar, Springer Link, and Emerald Insight databases published on January 31, 2020, to September 1, 2021. The studies selected were the full-text, non-review ones which focused on the omega 3 fatty acid intervention in COVID-19 with COVID-19 patients and people affected by COVID-19 as their subjects and clinical manifestations or the results of supporting examinations as their outcomes. No quality assessment was performed in this review.
 Past studies have shown that omega-3 fatty acid supplementation might be linked to better outcomes for critically ill patients with COVID. Hao Chen, an associate professor at the Department of Gastroenterology at Guangdong Provincial People’s Hospital in China and an author of the study, told Verywell that “the results from previous studies on the association between fish oil supplements and COVID-19-related outcomes remain controversial.”
Specifically, Chen said that while past studies have suggested the protective role of fish oil supplements against COVID infection, “the statistical power of previous studies was limited, resulting from their defects of small sample sizes or insufficient study designs.”
The 4 Best Supplements for COVID
   Fish Oil: A Natural Way to Reduce COVID Symptoms? For the study, Chen and researchers at the Guangdong Academy of Medical Sciences looked at whether taking omega-3 fatty acid-rich fish oil supplements was linked to better outcomes for people who got COVID. The researchers reviewed data on more than 110,000 adults in the UK Biobank cohort. They checked to see if the participants reported taking a fish oil supplement and also went over the results of their health exams at the start of the study. Over a 12-year follow-up, the researchers looked at the participants’ health.
Multivits, omega-3, probiotics, vitamin D may lessen risk of positive COVID-19 test | BMJ
Search
Access to BMJ Best Practice in the UK
Advertising and sponsorship opportunities with BMJ
BMJ Journals rate cards
For advertisers & sponsors
Americas
Advertising with BMJ
Author Resources
Contact us
Education & learning
Evidence-based resources
High-impact medical journals
Librarian resource center
BMJ Best Practice resources
Digital resources
Get started with BMJ Best Practice
Posters
Trial resources
Videos
Webinars & Podcasts
BMJ Case Reports
BMJ Case Reports videos
Digital communication
Librarian product review
Print resources
Sample Email
User guide
Writing a BMJ Case Report
BMJ Learning
Banners & Social Media Posts
BMJ Learning example emails
BMJ Learning video user guides
Posters
User Guides
BMJ OnExamination
Getting started guides
Social Media Posts
BMJ Open Access program
BMJ Open Access guides
BMJ open access posters
BMJ Open Access Social Promotion
BMJ Publishing Opportunities
Health science journals for eHLbc
Health science journals for HSLANJ members
Remote Access
Research to Publication
Administration materials
Curriculum Guides
Getting Started Guide
Poster
Videos
Webinars
Support and training
The BMJ and the BMJ Journals
Example Emails
Getting Started Guides
Podcasts
Posters & Flyers
Social Media Posts
Usage Reporting
Meet the team
Meetings & conferences ’22
Pharma relevant resources
Rights, licensing and permissions
The BMJ State of the Art
The BMJ State of the Art
Who we are
Librarian hub
Annals of the Rheumatic Diseases
BMJ Case Reports
BMJ Case Reports Corporate
BMJ Journals Archive
BMJ Premier Collection
BMJ Quality & Safety
British Journal of Sports Medicine
Diversity, equality & inclusion across BMJ
Emergency Medicine Journal
Evidence-Based Medicine
FAQs
Featured journals
Ferramentas de apoio Brazil
Herramientas de apoyo America latina
International Journal of Gynecological Cancer
Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health
Journal of Investigative Medicine
Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery & Psychiatry
Librarians & collection managers
Open access at BMJ
Product brochures & videos
Promo material for Canada
Promo material for the US
Regional Anesthesia & Pain Medicine
Support tools Canada
Support tools US
The BMJ
Usage insights
Webinars and product insights
APHA 2021: Annual Meeting and Expo
Applications – BMJ brand guidelines
Article Processing Charge breakdown
Article transfer service at BMJ
Author Page test
b-on, bliblioteca do conhecimento online
Blog terms & conditions
BMJ advertising and sponsorship media pack
BMJ Americas
Featured journals
BMJ Best Practice
BMJ Best Practice Comorbidities Trial
BMJ Best Practice Comorbidities Trial – FORM CLONE
BMJ Best Practice Comorbidities Trial – Genova
BMJ Best Practice Comorbidities Trial at Toscana Consortia
BMJ Best Practice Training
BMJ brand guidelines
BMJ branded – BMJ brand guidelines
BMJ erişiminizden en iyi şekilde yararlanın
BMJ events
BMJ Global Health Initiatives
A day in the life of a Vietnamese infectious disease doctor
Asian Development Bank and BMJ worked together to support frontline healthcare workers
Avian influenza – public perception and public practice
Better Health Programme workshop
Building health research capacity
Building research capacity in Thailand
Climate change and infectious diseases
Clinical views and opinions
Communicating better with patients in Vietnam
Deciphering differential diagnoses
Diagnosing patients and treating infectious diseases in Ukraine
Don’t panic – it’s just a pandemic
Face masks to prevent the next pandemic? From Cholera to Ebola – mapping infectious diseases
How far would you go to prevent the next infectious disease pandemic? Identifying unknown illnesses in Jordan
Managing a serious infectious disease outbreak in Iraq
Navigating complicated local protocols in Ukraine
Overcoming daily challenges in Azerbaijan
Practising evidence based medicine in Ukraine
Preventing and managing outbreaks
Publish a supplement
Strengthening health systems in Georgia
Supporting doctors in Kazakhstan during a pandemic
Supporting the diagnosis and management of tuberculosis in Georgia
The Black Death
Using BMJ resources to provide better, safer, and more cost-effective care in Vietnam
BMJ India
International expert roundtable videos
BMJ Innovations | Special supplement on social innovations for health
BMJ Journals Archive
BMJ Journals Premier Collection
BMJ Knowledge Centre Committee on Ethics and Artificial Intelligence
BMJ Learning impact survey incentive
BMJ Library Resource Centre
Blogs
BMJ Best Practice resources
BMJ Best Practice
Comorbidities Tool
Digital Resources
Getting Started Guide
Posters
Trial Resources
Videos
Digital Resources
Email signatures
Email templates
Getting Started Guides
Posters
Request printed material
Trial Resources
Usage Reporting
Videos
Webinars & Podcasts
BMJ Case Reports resources
BMJ Case Reports
CR Template Emails
Digital resources
Print Resources
User Guide
Videos
Writing a BMJ Case Report
BMJ Clinical Evidence resources
User guide
BMJ Learning resources
Banners & Social Media Posts
BMJ Learning
Example Emails
Posters
User Guides
Videos
BMJ OnExamination resources
BMJ OnExamination
Getting Started Guides
Social Media Posts
BMJ open access agreements
Membership
Digital Resources
Posters
User Leaflets
Prepay Account
Digital Resources
Posters
User Leaflets
Publish and Read Agreements
Digital Resources
Posters
User Leaflets
Case studies
BMJ Case Reports: case study
Reaching evidence-based decisions rapidly with BMJ Best Practice
Competitions
Editorial, articles & news
Email Templates
Engaging with new starters
Example emails
Getting Started Guides
How to access flyers
Make Most Of Your BMJ Resources
Navigating BMJ Quality
Podcasts
Posters
Posters
Posters & Flyers
Printed material
Research to Publication
Administration materials
Curriculum Guide
Curriculum Guides
Getting Started Guide
Poster
Research to Publication
Videos
Webinars
Support and training
The BMJ and Journals
The BMJ and Journals resources
Administration Toolkit
Remote Access
Social Media Posts
Usage Reporting
Videos
BMJ logo centre
BMJ New Ventures – start up investment initiative
BMJ privacy notice
BMJ Privacy notice archive
BMJ privacy notice
BMJ Research Forum  | Social media kit
BMJ Resources
BMJ Best Practice
BMJ Best Practice user guides
Online tutorials
Postcards & posters
Product fact sheet
Videos
Download the app
BMJ Best Practice
BMJ Learning
Online tutorials
Posters
Product fact sheet
User guides
Videos
BMJ Portfolio
User guide
Case studies, views and opinions
Five ways to improve medical practice – the perspective of a family doctor
Providing the best possible care to patients | Aversi Clinic, Georgia
How to Register, Support & Feedback
Institutions in Ukraine with Access to BMJ CDS
BMJ Resources
BMJ Resources
BMJ Resources
BMJ Resources for Russian Medical Schools
BMJ revenue sources
BMJ Rheumatology Hub
BMJ sponsorship and advertising opportunities
BMJ writing style guide A-Z
BMJ-TAG
BMJ-TAG | Our impact
BMJ-TAG staff
Current projects
Our HTA work
Contact BMJ-TAG
BMJ’s Double Dipping Policy
Case studies
CDS Training Initiative: request form
Clinical Decision Support Training Initiative
Comorbidities Manager Evaluation
Contact us
Continuing professional development systems
count
CPD – A Guide to Implementation request form
Design tips – BMJ brand guidelines
Digital colour palette – BMJ brand guidelines
Distinct gut bacterial profile highly responsive to IBS dietary therapy identified
Diversity and inclusion at BMJ
Menopause and menstruation policy
Doctors on the frontline
Dubai Health Authority (DHA)
Equality, diversity and inclusion across BMJ company and our journals
Essential mental health resources from BMJ
EU VAT rates
Events & services
Rights and Licensing
Author self-archiving & permissions
Licensing
Permissions
Photocopying
Reprints
Evidence based resources
Five minutes with Dr Anas Nader, co-founder and CEO of Patchwork
For academic institutions
For academic institutions
For advertisers
For Consortia
For governments
For Hospitals
For librarians – US
For societies – US
form-test
Fulcrum – BMJ brand guidelines
Future of global research
Neighbourhood Science
Post-West Power Shift
Sustainable Health: 2037
Techtopia
Weak signals
Global health initiatives
Global Health Initiatives
Health Education England North
Health Internetwork Access to Research Initiative (HINARI)
Healthcare innovation in Vietnam
Home
Home New
Housework linked to sharper memory and better falls protection in older adults
How to access
How to use our logo – BMJ brand guidelines
https://www.bmj.com/company/bmj-tag/current-projects/
Impact report Gmail signature insertion instructions
Impact reports
Innovations in non-communicable diseases
International expert roundtable – New Delhi
Journals: Terms & conditions for rapid responses
Latest news DRAFT
Media panel
Media panel contact form
Medicina Baseada em Evidências
Meet the BMJ New Ventures team
Modern slavery act commitment
Newsroom
‘Back to school asthma’ linked to tripling in rate of health service appointments
‘Climate cardiology’ needed to tackle links between climate change and heart health
‘Diseases of despair’ have soared over past decade in US
‘Fat suit’ role play may help uncover medical student prejudices against obesity
‘Foreign disinformation’ social media campaigns linked to falling vaccination rates
‘Frequent attenders’ comprise 4 in every 10 family doctor consultations in England
‘Ice’ flavoured e-cig use may be linked to nicotine dependence among the young
‘Invisible’ stool blood linked to heightened risk of death from all causes
‘Mass testing’ linked to 25% cut in covid-19 related hospital admissions
‘Mum test’ not enough to convince people to get the COVID-19 jab
‘Natural disasters’ increase triggers for violence against women and girls
‘Night owls’ may be twice as likely as morning ‘larks’ to underperform at work
‘Significant’ racial disparities in care of heart patients during first pandemic wave
‘Spin’ found in over half of clinical trial abstracts published in top psychiatry journals
“Extensive gender discrimination in healthcare access” for women in India
“Good evidence” that ADHD drugs might also treat Alzheimer’s disease
“Modest” increase in heart attack hospitalisation rates after years of decline
“Promising evidence” that osteopathy may relieve musculoskeletal pain
1 billion + young people potentially at risk of hearing loss from loud music
1 g cut in daily salt intake could ward off nearly 9 million cases of stroke/heart disease in China
1 in 10 cardiology trainee doctors in UK say they have been bullied
1 in 3 women in India is likely to have been subjected to intimate partner violence
1 in 4 UK puppies may be being acquired before minimum recommended age
1 in 4 women at sexual health clinics reports coercion over their reproductive lives
1 US dollar increase in minimum wage linked to 3.5-6% fall in suicide rate
10+ lifetime sexual partners linked to heightened cancer risk
20 mins of daily exercise at 70 may best stave off major heart disease in late old age
20 mph speed limits have little impact on crashes, casualties, driver speed
2016 US election result preceded fall in proportion of boys born in Canada
237+ million medication errors made every year in England
25-fold surge in vitamin D supplement prescriptions for kids in UK primary care
3+ hours daily social media use linked to poor sleep patterns in UK teens
30-60 mins of weekly muscle strengthening activity linked to 10-20% lower death risk
350,000 + women likely missing out on key postnatal check-ups in the UK every year
5 hour + emergency care wait before admission linked to heightened death risk
50 years of failure in UK drug policy must end
50% drop in patients attending cardiology services during coronavirus lockdown
6 out of 10 patients in England with ‘red flag’ symptoms not given urgent cancer referral
A career in healthcare not as “honourable” as sports, arts or media
Abandon the term “second victim” say families of patients who died after medical errors
Access to medical cannabis must be improved, argue top doctor and mother of Alfie Dingley
Accuracy of rapid covid test may be lower than previously suggested
Achieving gender parity will take another 60 years for some UK surgical specialties
Achieving sugar reduction targets could cut child obesity and healthcare costs
Activity “Advent calendar” could help boost activity and cut sitting time
Acupuncture can reduce migraine headaches
Acupuncture can relieve lower back/pelvic pain often experienced during pregnancy
Acupuncture may ease troublesome menopausal symptoms
Acute psychotic illness triggered by Brexit Referendum
Adherence to UK’s test, trace, and isolate system is low
Adult exposure to chickenpox linked to lower risk of shingles
Africans have authored just 3% of COVID-19 research
Afternoon napping linked to better mental agility
Age at menopause not linked to conventional cardiovascular disease risk factors
Age, male sex, obesity, and underlying illness emerge as risk factors for severe covid-19 or death
Ageism and sexism barring grandmothers from initiatives to save newborn lives in Global South
AI + ECG heart trace can accurately predict diabetes and pre-diabetes
AI fails to pass radiology qualifying examination
AI-enabled imaging of retina can predict cardiovascular disease/death
Aim to exceed weekly recommended physical activity level to offset health harms of prolonged sitting, says WHO
Air pollution linked to heightened risk of progressive and irreversible sight loss (AMD)
Air pollution linked to higher risk of young children developing asthma
Air pollution linked to several new causes of hospital admissions
Air pollution may worsen autism-related hospital admissions
Alcohol marketing awareness linked to ‘higher risk’ drinking among UK teens
Allergic conditions linked to lower COVID-19 infection risk
Allow women in England to take second abortion pill at home, healthcare leaders urge
Almost 1 in 3 older adults develop new conditions after covid-19 infection
Almost a quarter of antibiotic prescriptions in the US are inappropriate
Almost a third of UK doctors may be ‘burnt out’ and stressed, poll suggests
Amateur weight-lifter develops heart disease after using powerful combination steroid
Analysis reveals extent of drug industry funding of UK patient organisations
Anorexia nervosa among young children in the UK and Ireland on the up
Anti-inflammatory agents can effectively and safely curb major depressive symptoms
Antibiotic use linked to heightened bowel cancer risk
Antibiotics may lessen effectiveness of hormonal contraception
Antidepressants largely ineffective for back pain and osteoarthritis
Antidepressants linked to heightened pregnancy related diabetes risk
Antipsychotic prescriptions haven’t budged in 10+ years despite recommendations to curb use
Antiseptic drug as good as antibiotics for preventing recurrent urinary tract infections
Anxiety might be alleviated by regulating gut bacteria
Any‌ ‌amount‌ ‌of‌ ‌running‌ ‌linked‌ ‌to‌ ‌significantly‌ ‌lower‌ ‌risk‌ ‌of‌ ‌death‌ ‌ ‌
Apgar scores “within the normal range” linked to higher risks of illness and death
Are drug regulators sufficiently independent from the companies they regulate? Are rocket scientists and brain surgeons really smarter than everyone else? Are the costs of tackling covid-19 worth the benefits? Around 1 in 20 calls to NHS 111 helpline result in unnecessary emergency care visit
Around 100,000 convicted felons across US likely still own guns, say researchers
Around one in 20 patients are affected by preventable harm
Arthritis diagnosed before or during peak reproductive years may curb men’s fertility
Asian ethnicity strongly linked to COVID-related stroke
Asthma drug (ß2-agonists) can boost sprint and strength performance in athletes
At least 27 million* (see clarifications in main text) covid patients may have long term smell and taste problems
Athletes may have more than twice the risk of irregular heart rhythm
Autistic people across Europe have struggled to access COVID-19 services during pandemic
Average of 9 promotional claims on packaging of UK baby food products
BAME women account for over half of pregnant women in UK hospitals with covid-19
Ban filtered cigarettes to curb global plastic waste, say experts
Be clear, positive, and targeted, to help public stick to social distancing, governments urged
Being a “morning person” linked to lower risk of breast cancer
Benefits of exercise referral schemes not as large as hoped
Biggest risk factors identified to try and prevent Alzheimer’s disease
Birth defects linked to greater risk of cancer in later life
Birthweight strongly linked to type 2 diabetes risk in adulthood
Blood lipoprotein levels linked to future risk of ALS
Blood pressure disorder in pregnancy linked to heightened risk of death in offspring
Blood pressure highly likely to cause neurotic personality trait
Blood test to diagnose heart attacks is flawed, warn researchers
BMJ acupuncture collection launches
BMJ and Asian Development Bank launch new Coronavirus Information Centre
BMJ and Jisc collaborate to support open access publishing across the UK
BMJ and Ukraine Ministry of Health announce new agreement
BMJ announces partnership with Overton to advance real-world impact of health and medical research
BMJ announces USACO as exclusive sales partner in Japan
BMJ appoints first Entrepreneur in Residence to drive healthcare innovation
BMJ becomes the latest sponsor of NCTJ Journalism Diversity Fund
BMJ Best Practice & Health Education England shortlisted for the HSJ Partnership Awards 2021
BMJ Best Practice accredited
BMJ Best Practice and BMJ Learning officially accredited by the Ministry of Health Kazakhstan  
BMJ Best Practice approved
BMJ Best Practice available across Norway
BMJ Best Practice available across the Republic of Ireland
BMJ Best Practice Comorbidities Manager now available across NHS Wales
BMJ Best Practice linked to improved patient care when integrated into hospital system
BMJ Best Practice selected for EHR integration
BMJ Best Practice selected for Electronic Health Record (EHR) integration
BMJ Best Practice selected for Electronic Health Record (EHR) integration
BMJ Best Practice selected for EPR integration
BMJ Best Practice to provide support to NHS for a further two years
BMJ calls time on formula milk adverts
BMJ enhances long standing partnership with Bibliosan
BMJ experts invited to present at United Nations in Geneva."
Question:Can Omega-3 prevent COVID-19?

no
32

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"This recommendation should not preclude the use of IVIG when otherwise indicated for the treatment of complications that arise during the course of COVID-19.Considerations in ChildrenNo pediatric comparative studies have evaluated the use of IVIG in patients with acute COVID-19. IVIG is used in pediatric patients for other indications, such as in combination with glucocorticoids for the initial immunomodulatory treatment of MIS-C.4-7 However, given the lack of clear evidence of IVIG efficacy for the treatment of acute COVID-19 in adults, the Panel recommends against the use of IVIG for the treatment of acute COVID-19 in children, except in a clinical trial (AIII). This recommendation should not preclude the use of IVIG when otherwise indicated.For the Panel’s recommendations for children with MIS-C, see Therapeutic Management of Hospitalized Pediatric Patients With Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C) (With Discussion on Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Adults [MIS-A]).ReferencesLai CC, Chen WC, Chen CY, Wei YF. The effect of intravenous immunoglobulins on the outcomes of patients with COVID-19: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. 2022;20(10):1333-1340.
 The severity of COVID-19 is associated with the efficiency of IVIG. In critical subgroup, IVIG could reduce the mortality compared with the control group [RR = 0.57 (0.42-0.79, I2 = 025%). But there was no significant difference in the severe or non-severe subgroups. Conclusion:
      IVIG has demonstrated clinical efficacy on critical ill patients with COVID-19. There may be a relationship between the efficacy of IVIG and the COVID-19 disease severity. Well-designed clinical trials to identify the clinical and biochemical characteristics in COVID-19 patients' population that could benefit from IVIG are warranted in the future.
 2018; 45: 71-75View
                        in Article
                        Scopus (22)
PubMed
Crossref
Google Scholar8.Justel M Socias L Almansa R et al.IgM levels in plasma predict outcome in severe pandemic influenza.J Clin Virol. 2013; 58: 564-567View
                        in Article
                        Scopus (25)
PubMed
Crossref
Google ScholarArticle infoPublication historyPublished: February 2022IdentificationDOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/S2213-2600(21)00549-XCopyright© 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.ScienceDirectAccess this article on ScienceDirectHide CaptionDownloadSee figure in articleToggle ThumbstripView Large ImageDownload Hi-res image  Download .PPT
Linked ArticlesIntravenous immunoglobulins in patients with COVID-19-associated moderate-to-severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (ICAR): multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trialIn patients with COVID-19 who received invasive mechanical ventilation for moderate-to-severe ARDS, IVIG did not improve clinical outcomes at day 28 and tended to be associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse events, although not significant. The effect of IVIGs on earlier disease stages of COVID-19 should be assessed in future trials. Full-Text
                    PDF
                Why the application of IVIG might be beneficial in patients with COVID-19 – Authors' replyWe thank Detlef Kindgen-Milles and colleagues for their Correspondence regarding the administration of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) solutions enriched with IgM rather than solutions containing mainly IgG in patients with severe COVID-19. Full-Text
                    PDF
Related Hub
COVID-19 Resource Centre
Access the latest 2019 novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) content from across The Lancet journals as it is published. Hide CaptionDownloadSee figure in ArticleToggle ThumbstripDownload Hi-res image Download .PPT
ADVERTISEMENT
SCROLL TO CONTINUE WITH CONTENT
Open GPT Console
Open Oracle Keywords
Refresh Values
Property
Value
Status
Version
Ad File
Disable Ads Flag
Environment
Moat Init
Moat Ready
Contextual Ready
Contextual URL
Contextual Initial Segments
Contextual Used Segments
AdUnit
SubAdUnit
Custom Targeting
Ad Events
Invalid Ad Sizes
Lancet Journals
The Lancet
The Lancet Child & Adolescent Health
The Lancet Diabetes & Endocrinology
The Lancet Digital Health
The Lancet Gastroenterology & Hepatology
The Lancet Global Health
The Lancet Haematology
The Lancet Healthy Longevity
The Lancet HIV
The Lancet Infectious Diseases
The Lancet Microbe
The Lancet Neurology
The Lancet Oncology
The Lancet Planetary Health
The Lancet Psychiatry
The Lancet Public Health
The Lancet Regional Health – Americas
The Lancet Regional Health – Europe
The Lancet Regional Health – Southeast Asia
The Lancet Regional Health – Western Pacific
The Lancet Respiratory Medicine
The Lancet Rheumatology
eBioMedicine
eClinicalMedicine
CLINICAL INITIATIVES
The Lancet Clinic
Commissions
Series
Picture Quiz
GLOBAL HEALTH INITIATIVES
Global Health Hub
Commissions
Series
Global Burden of Disease
Climate Countdown
MULTIMEDIA
Infographics
Podcasts
Videos
Information
About us
For authors
For advertisers
For press
Statement on offensive historical content
Open access
Publishing excellence 
Careers
Community guidelines
Peer review
Preprints
Access
Access our content
Personal subscriptions
Existing print subscribers
Request institutional access
Research4Life
Connect
Lancet Alerts
Contact us
Customer service
Our global team
Conferences
We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content and ads."
Question:Can IVIG cure COVID-19?

No
33

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"4 Mesoblast, Inc, New York, New York. PMID:
33579813
      DOI:
      10.1542/peds.2020-046573
  Item in Clipboard
Case Reports
  Remestemcel-L Therapy for COVID-19-Associated Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children
Allison Ross Eckard et al. Pediatrics. Show details
Display options
      Display options
            Format
Abstract
PubMed
PMID
      Pediatrics
    Actions
              Search in PubMed
              Search in NLM Catalog
              Add to Search
            . 2021 May;147(5):e2020046573.
 Hiring activity related to artificial intelligence increased by 7% in the pharmaceutical industry in Q3 2022
Companies
Sections
Company A-Z
Company Categories
Products & Services
Company Releases
White Papers
Videos
Buyer’s Guides
Partner Content
LatestFinding a cure: How cell and gene therapies could revolutionise medicineThe impact of clinical trial decentralisation on the pharma supply chainPROTACs show promise for cancer treatment
Events
Reports
 PT
News
April 30, 2021
Mesoblast’s remestemcel-L lowers mortality in Covid-19 ARDS patients
Mesoblast has reported that results from a trial showed remestemcel-L reduced mortality in ventilator-dependent Covid-19 patients aged below 65 years with moderate/severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) through day 60 by 46%. Remestemcel-L reduced mortality in Covid-19 patients aged below 65 years with moderate/severe acute respiratory distress syndrome by 46%. Mesoblast has reported that results from a trial showed remestemcel-L reduced mortality in ventilator-dependent Covid-19 patients aged below 65 years with moderate/severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) through day 60 by 46%. An investigational therapy, remestemcel-L contains culture-expanded mesenchymal stromal cells obtained from an unrelated donor’s bone marrow. The randomised, controlled trial enrolled a total of 222 mechanically ventilated Covid-19 patients with moderate/severe ARDS in the US.
 Remestemcel-L exhibits beneficial effects relative to the cardiac and vascular pathophysiology associated with MIS-C and an excellent safety profile in children. This therapy holds promise as a novel treatment of MIS-C.
Acknowledgments
We thank Dr Michelle Hudspeth and our investigational drug services for sharing their experience and expertise in using remestemcel-L in children with graft-versus-host disease. We thank the families of these children for their willingness to participate in the study and to share their stories about MIS-C and remestemcel-L.
Dr Eckard supervised and participated in the acquisition of data, analyzed and interpreted data, drafted the initial manuscript, and revised the manuscript for important intellectual content; Drs Atz and Mack participated in the acquisition of data, analyzed and interpreted data, and critically reviewed and revised the manuscript for important intellectual content; Dr Borow and Ms Burke conceptualized and designed the study, designed the data collection instruments, analyzed and interpreted data, and critically reviewed and revised the manuscript for important intellectual content; and all authors approved the final manuscript as submitted and agree to be accountable for all aspects of the work. FUNDING: Mesoblast, Inc provided remestemcel-L at no cost to the patients. BNPbrain natriuretic peptideCOVID-19coronavirus disease 2019IVIgintravenous immunoglobulinKDKawasaki diseaseLVleft ventricularMIS-Cmultisystem inflammatory syndrome in childrenMSCmesenchymal stromal cellMUSCMedical University of South CarolinaPCRpolymerase chain reactionSARS-CoV-2severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2
References
1Huang C, Wang Y, Li X, et al. Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China."
Question:Can remestemcel-l cure COVID-19?

No
34

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Can mosquitoes transmit 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19)? - San Gabriel Valley MVCD
Skip to main content
What is a Vector?Submit a TipSearch:Go!Toggle navigationHomeI Am A...ResidentSoy Residente (Spanish)我是居民 (Chinese)Landscaper / GardenerTeacherPublic Agency / CityServicesSubmit a TipRequest Property ConsultationRequest Presentations & EventsRequest Student Education ProgramJoin Bite Back ProgramSign up for E-AlertsPool Text Verification ProgramInsect IdentificationLearnWhat is a Vector?Diseases Vectors CarryHow to Get Rid of MosquitoesAbout RepellentsMosquito ImpostersPlants and MosquitoesCalifornia Native Plant ResourcesWater Conservation and MosquitoesAbout Mosquito FishSterile Insect Technique (SIT)ResourcesNewsPress ReleasesWest Nile virus activityWest Nile virus 2022Short Bites BlogArea-wide TreatmentsTransparencyOverviewRequest for Proposals (RFPs)Financial ReportsPublic Records RequestSocial Media ContestsAbout UsOverviewDistrict StaffEmploymentDistrict InfoBoard of TrusteesAgendas and MinutesThis item appears onShort Bites BlogCan mosquitoes transmit 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19)?This is a common question since mosquitoes bite people year-round.Can these bloodsuckers spread COVID-19 to people when they bite?A new study by Kansas State University researchers is the first to confirm that SARS-CoV-2 cannot be transmitted to people by mosquitoes.From the study:"Three widely distributed species of mosquito; Aedes aegypti, Ae. albopictus and Culex quinquefasciatus, representing the two most significant genera of arbovirus vectors that infect people, were tested. ""We demonstrate that even under extreme conditions, SARS-CoV-2 virus is unable to replicate in these mosquitoes and therefore cannot be transmitted to people even in the unlikely event that a mosquito fed upon a viremic host. "What about flies and cockroaches?In a Texas A&M University study, biting and nonbiting flies and cockroaches (Blattodea) are not likely to contribute to transmission of COVID-19. This is good news since we know flies and cockroaches can touch surfaces that may have COVID-19 and other viruses.-=-=-For the most up-to-date COVID-19 information in Los Angeles County, please check out LA County Department of Public Health's website.
 health's editorial guidelines
Updated on May 13, 2022
Medically reviewed by
Jordana Haber Hazan, MD
Medically reviewed by
Jordana Haber Hazan, MD
Twitter
Jordana Haber, MD, MACM, is an emergency physician at University Medical Center in Las Vegas, where she serves as director of Clinical Education and Simulation for the residency program. learn more
Share
Tweet
Pin
Email
Mosquitoes are known to transmit diseases; that's why some people have been naturally worried about mosquitoes carrying SARS-CoV-2. Official guidance from the World Health Organization (WHO) says there's no information or evidence to suggest that COVID-19 can be transmitted through mosquito bites. For a mosquito to become infected with a virus, it must be present in the blood the mosquito feeds on. "SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes COVID-19) is a respiratory virus that is almost exclusively contained within the lungs and respiratory tract of infected people, and rarely gets into the blood," Emily Gallichotte, PhD, a postdoctoral researcher in the department of microbiology, immunology, and pathology at Colorado State University, told Health. Mosquitoes are very genetically different from humans.
 Medical News Today spoke with experts to find if mosquitoes could also carry and transmit the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes COVID-19.Share on PinterestExperts weigh in on whether or not mosquitoes can carry and spread SARS-CoV-2. Image credit: Rob and Julia Campbell/Stocksy,Zika, dengue, and West Nile are viruses that spread through bites by infected mosquitoes. Because a number of viruses can be transmitted through mosquito bites, people may wonder if the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes COVID-19 can also circulate this way. Medical News Today spoke to a variety of experts to find out if mosquitoes can transmit the SARS-CoV-2 virus. And if they do not now, is there potential for them to do so in the future? All data and statistics are based on publicly available data at the time of publication."
Question:Can mosquitos cause COVID-19?

No
35

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"AP Photo/Ric Feld
            Vodka won’t protect you from coronavirus, and 4 other things to know about hand sanitizer
Publicado: 13 marzo 2020 18:15 CET
Jeffrey Gardner, University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Autoría
        Jeffrey Gardner
      Associate Professor of Biological Sciences, University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Cláusula de Divulgación
Jeffrey Gardner receives funding from the U.S. Department of Energy and the Maryland Technology Development Corporation. He is also the Technical Director of Gardner Industries LLC, a biotechnology start-up company. Ver todos los asociados
 Correo
 Twitter
 Facebook
 LinkedIn
 WhatsApp
 Messenger
Editor’s note: As concern about coronavirus grows, hand sanitizer is in high demand. Biologist Jeffrey Gardner explains why alcohol is a key ingredient in hand sanitizer, and why he doesn’t recommend making your own supply at home.
 False claim: Homemade hand sanitizer will protect against coronavirus | ReutersDiscover Thomson ReutersDirectory of sitesLoginContactSupportfor-phone-onlyfor-tablet-portrait-upfor-tablet-landscape-upfor-desktop-upfor-wide-desktop-upeverythingNewsUpdated False claim: Homemade hand sanitizer will protect against coronavirusBy Reuters Staff4 Min ReadA Facebook page has posted an image with a recipe for homemade hand sanitizer (see here ). While the post does not claim it is for the current coronavirus outbreak (COVID-19), the timing and the comments on the post suggest that it may be for this purpose due to the shortage of hand sanitizer (see more on this  here ). The recipe includes 6 tbsp vodka, 4 tbsp aloe vera, 10 drops lavender oil, 10 drops tea tree oil.During the COVID-19 outbreak, the Center for Disease Control (CDC) recommend washing hands frequently with soap and water or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol (see here )Vodka usually contains 35-46% alcohol by volume (see: here ). This would not suffice to make it effective to fight coronavirus.The CDC explains why lower alcohol concentration is less desirable generally, here :“Many studies have found that sanitizers with an alcohol concentration between 60–95% are more effective at killing germs than those with a lower alcohol concentration or non-alcohol-based hand sanitizers. Hand sanitizers without 60-95% alcohol 1) may not work equally well for many types of germs; and 2) merely reduce the growth of germs rather than kill them outright.“The WHO released a guide for local production of handrub which includes two recipes that differ greatly from the claim (see  here ). While this is not specifically formulated for the coronavirus outbreak, the two recommended recipes for local production include Ethanol 96% and Isopropyl alcohol 99.8%.
 Support cleveland.comNewsHomemade hand sanitizer to battle coronavirus? 05, 2020, 7:34 p.m.|Published: Mar. 05, 2020, 3:15 p.m.People are trying to make homemade hand sanitizer to combat the coronavirus. Here's what to know.NEW!1,757sharesBy Emily Bamforth, cleveland.comCLEVELAND, Ohio -- Denatured alcohol can be used to strip floors and make shellac, but don’t put it in your homemade hand sanitizer to fight the COVID-19 coronavirus.The Internet has exploded with homemade sanitizer recipes as it becomes harder to find Purell and other hand sanitizer brands, even in Ohio, where there are no confirmed cases of the illness. Akron-based GOJO Industries, which makes Purell, is ramping up production to try and meet demand as people stock up ahead because of coronavirus worries.Isopropyl alcohol is becoming harder to find as well, especially at higher alcohol content."
Question:Can Homemade Vodka Sanitizer prevent COVID-19?

No
36

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Several studies have shown that ribavirin has useful activity against SARS-CoV in vitro [11,12]. However, other studies have found that ribavirin did not inhibit the virus in vivo and did not promote the recovery of patients infected with SARS-CoV [13,14]. A retrospective cohort study showed that ribavirin and interferon alfa-2a therapy improved survival at 14 days but not at 28 days in patients with severe MERS-CoV infection [4]. It should also be pointed out that a large, retrospective, multicentre study on different types of interferon with ribavirin to treat critically ill MERS cases did not improve survival [6]. Therefore, we should consider to remove the suggestion that patients with COVID-19 be treated with ribavirin.This study is limited by its single-centre, retrospective and non-randomised nature. Inevitably, selection bias cannot be completely ruled out.
 The efforts of clinical research professionals will help both in this outbreak and future outbreaks of nCoV, which will possess unknown sensitivities to our antiviral pharmacopoeia.CONFLICTS OF INTERESTThe authors disclose that their affiliated organizations will support clinical trials with ribavirin for the treatment of novel coronavirus infections.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThe authors would like to thank the medical responders to 2019‐nCoV and the global supporters of the patients and populations affected. Technical writing assistance was utilized in the preparation of this manuscript.Notes
Khalili JS, Zhu H, Mak NSA, Yan Y, Zhu Y. Novel coronavirus treatment with ribavirin: Groundwork for an evaluation concerning COVID‐19. J Med Virol.
 Ribavirin (Fig. 1), one of the FDA-approved antiviral drugs used for the last four decades against RNA viruses, could be a potential candidate to be used for drug repurposing against COVID-19. Ribavirin (1-β-d-ribofuranosyl-1,2,4-triazole-3-carboxamide), which was first synthesized in 1972 (Witkowski et al. 1972), has broad-spectrum antiviral properties and has been used mostly to treat the hepatitis C virus (HCV) infections in humans. Although ribavirin is used almost exclusively in hepatitis C virus infections in clinical practice, it has an antiviral effect against different viruses (Ramírez-Olivencia et al. 2019)."
Question:Can Ribavirin help COVID-19?

No
37

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"Taking this into account, we conclude that preventive treatment with Echinacea provides beneficial effects to coronavirus infections in both, adults and children. In adults, infections could be prevented, whereas children demonstrated significantly reduced virus loads, symptom reduction, as well as shortened duration of illnesses. In both cases, preventive effects of Echinacea against coronaviruses could be ascertained in controlled clinical settings.Neither of the referenced studies detected the newly occurring SARS-CoV-2, but only endemic coronavirus strains, as both were carried out prior to 2019. Conclusions pertaining to COVID-19 must be carefully considered, but are nevertheless important, since many people rely on immune support by herbal preparations these days, and it is important to give an estimation on evidence.All coronaviruses share structural similarities, including an enveloped membrane containing the genetic material, i.e., RNA and spike proteins for attachment to target cells. Echinacea broadly inhibits enveloped respiratory viruses at physiological concentrations in vitro and in vivo; however, the exact mode-of-action remains to be elucidated. Due to this broad range of activity, deactivation of all measured coronavirus types, such as alpha (CoV-229E) and beta strains (MERS-CoV, SARS-CoV-1, SARS-CoV-2) by Echinacea, can realistically be assumed, and the results of this study point towards the clinical relevance of in vitro findings.
 The plausible reason for our hypothesis is that the presence of numerous bioactive agents in different parts of plants that may synergistically exert polypharmacological actions in regulating immune-inflammatory axis in COVID-19. Our proposition is to scientifically contemplate the therapeutic perspective and prospect of Echinacea on infection, immunity, and inflammation with a potential in COVID-19 to limit the severity and progression of the disease. Based on the clinical usage for respiratory infections, and relative safety in humans, further studies for the evidence-based approach to COVID-19 are needed. We do hope that Echinacea could be a candidate agent for immunomodulation in the prevention and treatment of COVID-19. Keywords:
      COVID-19; Echinacea; Herbs; Immunomodulators; Phytochemicals; Phytomedicines; SARS-CoV-2. © 2021 The Authors.
 Activation of the ECS during COVID-19 progression could be a new way to combat systemic inflammation and the cytokine storm. The goal of this review, which was carried out by a group of researchers from a variety of multi-national institutions, was to find clinical studies evaluating coronavirus infections in the context of Echinacea administration and to assess preventive and therapy advantages. The study
The initial clinical study was conducted as a double-blinded, placebo-controlled, monocentric randomized control trial (RCT) at Cardiff University in the United Kingdom. Participants aged 18 and above from Cardiff, Wales, were asked to apply a 3 x 0.9 mL solution daily for four months. A commercial preparation, standardized to contain 5 mg/100 g of dodecatetraenoic acid isobutylamide based on high-performance liquid chromatography measurements, was used to extract the hydro-ethanolic extract from freshly harvested aerial parts of Echinacea purpurea to 95% supplemented with 5% Echinacea purpurea roots extract. Immunology eBook   Compilation of the top interviews, articles, and news in the last year."
Question:Can Echinacea prevent COVID-19?

No
38

We are a committee of leading scientific experts and medical doctors reviewing the latest and highest quality of research from PubMED. For each question, we have chosen an answer, either 'yes' or 'no', based on our best understanding of current medical practice and literature.
Provide an answer to the question using the provided evidence and contrasting it with your internal knowledge.
Evidence:"This site requires JavaScript to be enabled.
 A lemon is a sour and tangy, yellow natural miracle bursting with health benefits. Pour yourself a glass of ice water, add a lemon wedge (you'll see why) as you consider these five reasons to make lemons a bigger part of your life:
1. Fortify Your Immune System
India Today this week encouraged a country devastated by COVID-19 to "Build Your Immunity to Fight Covid: Lemon juice in warm water." Lemons and other foods high in vitamin C and other antioxidants, in fact, help boost your immune system. In most years, health experts recommend vitamin C during cold and flu season. The India Today recipe, from a Noida hospital head nutritionist, includes 1-2 tablespoons of fresh lemon juice and a quarter-tablespoon of sea salt (with an optional quarter-tablespoon honey) in a glass of lukewarm water.
 The short answer from an infectious disease specialist
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Pinterest
email
Email
Q: Can drinking or gargling with lemon juice or lemon water kill the coronavirus? A: The theory here is that the coronavirus (COVID-19) cannot live in acidic environments, so drinking or gargling with lemon juice or lemon water is thought to kill it. The idea is that by consuming lemon, you’ll raise your body’s pH level, which the virus cannot survive in. (pH is a scale that’s used to rank the acidity of substances.) Advertising Policy
				Cleveland Clinic is a non-profit academic medical center. Advertising on our site helps support our mission."
Question:Can drinking lemon water prevent COVID-19?

No
39

Accuracy:0.7959183673469388